A BELLE FOR CHRISTMAS (2014) - FULL TRANSCRIPT

foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- This big one. No, no, she can't have that. What is it, Pheebs? What is it? A microscope! Excellent. Did you want that? - Yes? - Yes. How does he know what you want? You must have been such a good girl. Did Santa get it right? Yes. Right, Elliot, anything for you, buddy? Well, I think we might have one more. Maybe. It might be this one. This is what Santa gives you. I love you. Thank you. It's not me, it's Santa. No. Yes. Is that the one we saw? Come on, Dad, you promised we'd go to the festival. Yeah, you promised. Okay, okay. We'll go to the festival. - Yay! - Yay! Which one can I get for three bucks? Well, how about, if you can convince your parents to take one home today, I'll give you three bucks to buy its first bag of puppy food? Phoebe, no, forget it, Dad will never go for it. Don't listen to him. We'll take one puppy in a to-go box, please. My dad won't mind. It's a surprise. Phoebe, no, we're about to order. And Dad's already mad you came out here without permission. Come on, not even for the crazy-eyed spaz in the back corner? Oh. Looks like I'd be doing you the favor. That would-- oh, there they are. What would my two most favorite customers like today? How about a break from the baloney? Fruit tarts for both of us, please. Okay. Phoebe? Now what did we all talk about last night? How we should respect Daniela 'cause she's your new girlfriend. Yes. No, no, she's not my girlfriend. Yet. We've only gone out a couple of times. Now look, she's trying really hard with you guys, so I would appreciate it if you would be nice-- both of you. Okay? All righty, here we have two tarts for the two of you and one yummy chocolate croissant for the handsome man. Ooh. I baked these fresh just for you and you. Well, thank you, we appreciate it. One piping hot pumpkin spiced latte to go. Thank you. Kids, what do we say? - Thank you. - Thanks. Oh, no problem. So are we still on for tomorrow night? Oh, I don't know. I forgot to ask their grandmother if she could stay. Oh, why don't I just come over and cook dinner for everybody? How about that? Yeah, that sounds-- that's wonderful. Okay, I'll see you at 7:00. - Okay. - All right. Bye. You lucky-lou. What a hunky slab of pumpkin bread that is. I know. Oh, and you should see the house they live in. It's beautiful. It sounds almost perfect. Too bad his kids are such snarky little tarts. That doesn't faze me. Nothing a little discipline can't fix. Oh, it's you again. Did your parents change their mind? Did your parents change their mind about what? Elliot, you did not tell this nice lady that we were looking to adopt a dog, did you? No, Dad, I didn't. I just-- earlier, Phoebe was over here and I-- Oh, I don't know what's gotten into her. Oh. It looks like she likes you. Okay, she is very, very, very cute, okay? But the Barrows family household has a very strict no-puppy policy. Oh, are you allergic, Mr. Barrows? No, no. So may I ask why the policy? Okay, fine, here's how this scenario unfolds. Adopt lovely canine for the kids and after a couple of weeks, kids lose interest and Pops ends up taking care of said canine for the next 10 to 12. Is that how you guys see this scenario playing out? No, ma'am. 'Cause it sounds like you've been skipping out on your chores and leaving them for good old Pops, huh? Well, no-- well, sometimes when I say I dusted the mantel, when I really just blew the surface. But typically, no. Because, you know, this is a shepherd mix. She's gonna eat a lot and poop a lot and shed a lot. Basically drive you crazy for the first year or two that you have her. But she's also gonna crack you up every day. Oh, oops. And she's gonna cuddle you like crazy and basically love you unconditionally till her last day on Earth. I promise you won't regret it. That's a very, very good pitch, I will give you that. I'm sorry, we just can't do it. Not this year. But I appreciate it. Thank you. Come on, kids, let's go. - Daddy, please? - Honey, come on. Hey, guys, will one of you get the door, please? Ah, my merry little mischief makers. It's good to see you. Grandma. What's wrong, Elliot? Are you not happy to see your wrinkly old granny? He's crying because you called him "mischief maker." Mom called us that sometimes, too. Nuh-uh. I wasn't crying, Phoebe. Grandma's perfume burned my eyes. Well, did your mama never tell you where that nickname came from? She got it from herself. Every Christmas Eve when she and Uncle Ted were your age, they would sneak down the stairs and try to unwrap every present under the tree without tearing any of the wrapping paper. One year, your mama even got a roll of Scotch tape and she tried to re-tape the things that they'd accidentally torn and I'll tell you what, sly old Granny was waiting and watching. I caught her red-handed! Gee, Mom sure was naughty. - Must be where I get it from. - Maybe so. But why call us that? We never did anything to earn Mom's nickname. Well, honey, never say never. You don't know what mischief the holidays can bring. I don't want Mom's nickname. Oh, hey, Marnie, thank you so much for coming. I really appreciate it. I didn't even think about needing a sitter, this being the first time since-- Don't mention it. You know I love being here. Should I feed them dinner, too? No, no, I should be done and back by 6:00, so... Well, I'm already here. I might as well fix them a proper meal. I bet the kids are getting tired of rotisserie chicken from the grocery store. All right, you know me too well, Marnie. Thanks. Uh... Actually, that lady friend that I told you about, she was actually planning on coming by and cooking, so-- That's nice. Maybe you can stay and you could meet her, unless that would be weird. Glenn, you know, I've told you a thousand times, my Janey loved you. She would want you to find somebody to make you and the kids happy. And, of course, you know I would want to meet her. I love you like a son. Now you get on out of here before it's too late. Thank you. See you, honey, okay? So that's what you think of the lady your daddy's seeing? If I said out loud what I thought of her, Grandma, Santa would surely skip bringing me presents this year. Oh, that's really bad. Hey, buddy. Did you ask Malcolm if he wanted to ride bikes with you? Elliot, I don't want to do anything that makes you or your sister uncomfortable. Okay, so if it's too early for all this stuff, - I'll just tell Dani that-- - No, Dad, it's fine. If you like her, I want you to be happy. I'm sure deep down Phoebe does, too. I want us all to be happy, buddy. Be careful out here, will you? - All right. Love you. - You, too. Boom. Blindsided by the blonde. What? When my dad left, my mom said it was because he was blindsided by a big booty, but your dad, same thing, only a big-headed blonde. Thought you were going to a Christmas play with your mom at your church today. Got out of it. Said I had kidney beans for a late-night snack. And that if she took me, I'd be pooting on the pews. Have you ever heard of a poot on a wooden pew? It sounds like a choir of one praising hallelujah. So why didn't you want to go? Well, it's not like I could ever leave you alone. You've been such a sad Santa sack ever since school let out. How many times do I have to I tell you? I'm fine. So what are you doing out here all alone anyway? I was trying to be alone. Or maybe you were trying to drive back and forth past the Kane residence, wait and see if a certain third-grader was selling hot chocolate like last year. I already told you, Malcolm, I don't like Riley Kane, okay? Not even when she's looking all fine like that in her winter's best? I don't know about you, but I'm thirsty. You're not getting free cocoa again this year, Malcolm. If you really have low blood sugar, go and see your pediatrician. I wasn't asking for a handout. A man with a job gladly pays for his cocoa. Now with extra marshmallows, please. And what's this alleged job of yours anyways, Malcolm? I scoop doggie doo for the greater citizens on the west block. So what's the cause? All proceeds go to Hands on Paws, our local dog rescue. Hey, they were set up in front of the bakery. Had a really cute pup I loved. - You like dogs too, Elliot? - Sure, I do. My dad won't let us get one, but I really wish we could. My parents won't let me get one either. It's nice you're trying to help all the dogs with the fundraiser, though. The things a boy will say to get a girl to believe him. What are you talking about? I bet he never even heard of Hands on Paws before you mentioned it. Besides, you're hardly mature enough to handle a dog responsibly, Elliot. And you're hardly mature enough to handle a gentleman like my fine friend here. Now quit gawking at him like you're not mad he didn't talk to you first, Penny "Whiner." You had your cocoa, so leave already. No loitering. Goodness, I'm so sorry. If I had known there was gonna be a guest, I would have brought another cranberry Cornish hen. But you are the guest, so how did you not know you'd be here, silly? It's fine. Phoebe and I will share. Oh, good. So, Daniela, what kind of work do you do? Oh, well, I work at the bakery down on Main Street. Which explains why she's such a good cook, doesn't it, guys? Well, now, that's a nice little place. So have you always lived in Tennessee? Oh, well, I actually lived in L.A. for a little bit. You know, I did some modeling and some acting and that just didn't pan out. So I'm back here starting fresh and anew. I'm sorry. What did you say your last name was again? Oh, it's Downy. Uh, Dani actually said she knew of Janey in school. Yes, Daniela, I do believe I remember you. You were in a bunch of local pageants growing up, as I recall. Yes. Yes, I was. Fancy that, someone who went to my pageants. Oh, I didn't. I just... I read about them in the paper, that's all. Oh. That's a pretty sharp memory there, Marn. Wait. So you knew my mom and you think it's okay to like my dad? Elliot, I barely knew your mom, you know, and I've been getting your daddy's coffee for over a year now and never knew that Janey-- well, you know, I just wanted to make you all a nice dinner. It's just really weird. No wonder she did bad in L.A. That was a terrible performance. I think you guys owe Dani an apology. Oh. Ah. Mm... Oh, my. You know, those ungrateful little heathens. I mean, those Cornish hens, those are a real pain in my-- Oh. Just a minute. Okay. You all right? Yeah, I'll be fine. I'm really sorry. I mean, this whole situation's just so new for everybody, and they're just-- Right. I completely understand. I mean, I know because I lost my mother over the holidays and I know exactly what they're going through, so... - I'm sorry. I had no idea. - I do, I do. Uh... Sorry. Elliot, are you okay, honey? Well, if it's any consolation, your mother didn't care for Dani either. But that information is strictly between us big kids. Pinky swear? And I only say that because your daddy needs to find out for himself. He probably thinks he's doing what's right for you kids right now, but he's a smart man. Just give him a little time, okay? But I thought she said she didn't know Mom that well. Mom didn't like her? Honey, your mama liked everyone. It was Dani who was jealous of your mom. Why? Well, back when they were seniors, your mom was voted the most popular in school and somehow Dani claimed that the ballots had been rigged, but when they did a recount, Janey won by a landslide. Can you imagine? Daniela Downy must have fake cried the whole way home. "Oh-hh!" Ahem. Guys, is there something you'd like to say to Dani? Sorry. Is there anything else you want to say to Dani? Food? Thanks for the food. Yes, thank you, Dani. Oh, you are so welcome. I actually made the same meal for the homeless down at the shelters. Quite a treat. Well, that's very nice of you. And, guys, since Dani doesn't have any family to go home to for the holidays, I told her that she could spend the holidays with us, okay? And thank you so much. I mean, you don't know how much this means to me. I thought I was gonna have to spend the holidays all by myself in my dreary little house but, oh, we get to make pies and play games and, oh, it's just gonna be the best holiday ever together! Oh, I got lots to do. Oh, no. Oh. How do I--? Oh-hh. Oh, good morning. Hey, good morning. How did you sleep? Oh, that bed is more comfortable than the one I sleep on at home every night. So what are you guys up to here? We are making French toast. French toast! Oh, I make the best French toast. Here, let me handle this. Oh. I've got bread, got our eggs. Oh, milk, I got to get some milk. Hey, you brought the puppy! Hi. I didn't get your name the other day. - It's Elliot. - Well, is your dad home, Elliot? Puppy! - Can you hold her? - Yeah. Elliot, did you-- No, no, it wasn't him. It was me. Look, I can't really explain it but what happened with this dog and Elliot yesterday, it's-- connections like that aren't made every day. This dog loves your son. She's been crying ever since he left. And look, I don't want to tell you how to parent because I have no experience with it. I've never parented anything other than the dogs that I foster every year. But I think in order to learn responsibility, you have to be given responsibility. And that applies to the kids here, right? Please, Dad? I promise I'll take good care of her. Pretty, pretty, pretty please? You can even take back our-- oh, sorry. I mean, Elliot's shares of the presents back if we can just have this one puppy. Please, Daddy, please? I mean, you show up on my doorstep here with this fuzzy little bit of cuteness with a bow on and everything. It's not like I ever really had a choice, huh? Okay. Yay! Thank you, Daddy! Give me the papers and let me sign on the dotted line before I change my mind. Ready for you right there. Yes, you are. Well, last step is you guys have to name her. Yeah, Elliot. What you gonna name her? Belle. Her name is Belle. Oh, what do we have going on here? - Hi. - Oh--! Bless you. Oh, you must be the neighbor and you adopted a dog, isn't that nice? Nope, she's ours for the keeping. And you're allergic, ain't you? Glenn, please tell me that you did not adopt a dog from a complete stranger. I mean, no offense, you seem lovely. She's not a stranger. And Belle isn't a random dog. Are you, Belle? She's part of our family now. Dani, this is the director of the local dog rescue here in town. We actually met yesterday, actually right outside your bakery. I'm Kate. - Nice to meet you. - Bless you. This is Dani and Dani is-- Our homeless holiday guest. Thanks. You are allergic to dogs, aren't you? Mm-hmm, yes. Oh, to the fur, to their drool, to the feces-- all of it. I had no idea. But, you know, actually they have shots now for that - and they're pretty simple, so-- - Oh, really? I'm gonna get going but I'm gonna give you my card. It has my cell number on it. Call me anytime if you need anything. All of her papers and she's got all of her shots. The number for the vet is on there and there's an after-hours emergency, just in case something goes wrong. Perfect. That's great, thank you so very much. Yes, thank you, thank you, Kate. You are so welcome. Merry Christmas, Kate. - Enjoy Belle. - We will. - Take good care of her. - Okay. I appreciate it, Kate. Thank you, very, very much. Thank you. Bye, guys, nice meeting you. Yeah. Okay, girl, let's get you something to eat. I bet you're starving. Elliot, you can't just feed her anything, okay? She can't have chocolate. She can't have onions... Hey, bud. Everything okay with Dani? Well, at least she stopped crying. Belle makes you pretty happy, doesn't she? Yeah, I don't think I've seen you this consistently happy in a long time. Belle is so happy all the time. I've got to work hard to keep up, you know. And I've been telling Belle all about Mom. How she was the most amazing architect ever and how we used to lay on the floor of her study and draw pictures while she would work on blueprints at her desk. You don't think Mom's starting to think that I forgot about her because Belle makes me so happy? No, no, no way, buddy, no way. Your mom, she is watching down on you. And every single time that you or your sister smile, I promise you, she smiles, too. And speaking of drawing, you know, I haven't seen you draw in a long time. You used to draw everywhere. You ever think about taking it back up? I'm just saying there's this pretty girl up the street who could probably use a sketch of Belle for Christmas, seeing as how she doesn't have a dog of her own. - I don't know. - No? Hey, no pressure. Just a creative mind can get you pretty far, buddy. I mean, your mom's ability to design, that was just one of the-- one of the many reasons that I fell in love with her. Just think about it. - Good night, buddy. - Good night, Dad. "Dear Janey, Merry Christmas to you and yours. I know we haven't spoken for some time now, but I just wanted you know that your presence--" Hey, Marnie, good morning. I have a quick question for you. Do you know if Janey ever designed some home plans down in Wimberley? Yeah, I don't remember that either. I was just curious. Okay, we're gonna see you later today? Okie-dokie, bye-bye. - Good morning. - Oh, hey. Oh, you have to work on Christmas Eve? Yeah, it's Honey Brook Annual Baking Contest and I have to get a four-tiered red velvet Christmas cake ready before 5:00 for the attendees. Would you-- would you like to come? Oh! Yeah, that sounds like it'd be fun. I think the kids would enjoy that. And you could probably use a little break from your allergies, too. Yeah. Well, why don't I just come back around 6:00 and you and me and the kids, we can all ride together? - That sounds great. - All right. You have a really good day, dear. Thank you. Ooh. Sorry. You have a good day. Hey, kids, why don't you guys get dressed in something decent and come on down here. We're gonna take a little road trip. I still don't see why we couldn't bring Belle. Well, because, Elliot, what happens in the New Year when you start school again? She has to learn to stay home by herself a little bit each day. Ooh, looks delish. What's wrong? I thought you were ecstatic to be spending the holidays with the big-shot boyfriend, the lawyer and his rugrats. You said it was your "champagne dream come true." It was, until that Belle came along. Bell? Like a sleigh bell? No, more like a mangy eight-pound ball of fur who cries constantly and drools incessantly and whose breath smells like a cheesy bacon fart. Oh, they got a puppy! How cute. I mean, ooh, how gross. I mean, I hope you put out rat traps for the little vermin. Hmm... So what are you gonna do now? Huh? What can I do? I mean, this dog has won the affections of this entire household before I could even get my favorite crocodile boots through the door. Glenn included. These kids, they can't stand me. Oh, but ever since that dog-- oh, my gosh, I can't even be in the house without sneezing my head off. I guess it's back to the old drawing board for my future. What am I supposed to do? Maybe, maybe you could date that Skip Jeffries that comes in here all the time. He's really pretty cute. Uh, Kimmy, he's a plumber. Yeah. Yeah, he comes in here and he unclogs toilets. - Oh. - And every time he bends over, I feel like I'm visiting the Grand Canyon. You know, I don't think so. Oh! Oh! Look at what you made me do! - I'm so sorry. - Oh, God, you got me so upset. You still look really pretty even covered in batter. I cannot go to the contest looking like this. I got to get home and change. Oh, my gosh. Oh, okay. You finish the cakes, I will be back in 30 minutes. Okay. We're here, guys. Elliot, ring the doorbell, please. Yes, Dad. Yes, may I help you? Hi, yeah, I'm Glenn Barrows. I'm Janey Barrows' husband. Oh, my, what a wonderful surprise. And this must be Elliot and Phoebe. Yes, ma'am. I've heard Janey speak many times of them. Where is Janey? Actually, that's what I came here to talk to you about. Oh, okay. Well, please do come in. Thank you. Well, let's just see if there is anything left on Mr. Barrows' Christmas wish list after he's had a slice of this red velvet cake. Where are you? Where are you? Ah. Oh, you have been waiting under the wrong Christmas tree. Malcolm, are you trying to give me a heart attack? What did I tell you about firecrackers in the front yard before New Year? Get your butt over here, boy. Kimmy, Kimmy, phone call for you. Will you please take it on the kitchen line? Yes, ma'am. - Hello? - Oh, Kimmy, it's me. I was wondering if you could whip up some of that cream cheese frosting. I'm gonna be a little later than I thought. Copy that. I'll be licking the beaters till you get back. Um, is everything okay? Oh, everything is just powdered sugar now. I'm actually on my way to displace this little fleabag in her new home right now. Okay. See you when you get back. Y'all come on now, have a seat. - Thank you. - Thank you. This is beautiful. Oh, well, thank you. - Grandma? - Yes, come on, baby. - Come on. - Thank you. Now this here is my grandbaby, Miss Adelaide. Her mom and daddy went out to get us a nice smoked ham for dinner, didn't they? Hi. You can call me Addie. Hi, Addie, I'm Phoebe and this is my little brother Elliot. He's shy. My daddy made me a Santa sleigh. - You want to see? - Sure. Wait, wait, now y'all get your cookies. Oh. Just one each, just one. Okay. Well, you're lucky. I was just making my afternoon tea. Perfect, that's gonna hit the spot, thank you. Oh, you're welcome. You know, when that flood came through, this tea set was one of the few things I was able to salvage. I remember that. That was terrible. I bet you do. Lord, they sure look an awful lot like her, don't they? You know, it's a shame that Janey couldn't come with you all today. Well, that's what I wanted to talk to you about. Um... see, we lost Janey earlier this year... in a car accident. I am so sorry for your loss, Glenn. I can't tell you how much this breaks my heart. She was a good peach, that girl. She was one of the best of the bundle. Yes, she really was. And that's the thing is-- See, I got your Christmas card this morning, but how did you know Janey? Because I don't remember her doing any work-- Oh, my heavens. She never told you. Thank you. Seriously? Serious as Santa in a snowstorm. My Janey blueprinted the remodeling of every single home in this entire neighborhood? It was over the year after the flood came through. You know, most of us didn't have insurance. Since we weren't in a floodplain, we didn't think it could happen to us. And Janey didn't charge a one of us a dime, even helped us find cheap contractors to do the labor, too. I mean, come on, how did you not notice how busy she was? Then again, I thought she said she had another job, too. No, she was always very, very busy but she always made time for me and the kids. She seemed like the kind of girl who always somehow found enough hours in a day. I just don't understand, I don't know why she never said anything to us about this. I can't say for sure, but I will tell you this. I've seen people who are always preaching about the things that others should be doing and keeping a spreadsheet of every nice thing they ever did for you and always expecting every good deed to come with some big reward. I mean, heck, most kind gestures, well, they come with a price. Now, while there are still others I've known to do things-- good, kind, loving things, who do them quietly in the privacy of their own hearts and minds-- simply because they believe it's the right thing to do. Elliot, Pheebs, come here, guys. Adelaide, come here, baby. Come here, guys. You take a look at every single one of these houses, okay? See them? Your mother is responsible for every one of these. - Wow. - Pretty cool, huh? - Wow. - Yeah. Our mom was the coolest. Yeah, she was. - You guys are pretty cool, too. - Thanks, Dad. Get back. Now get back. Hello, bird. Hello, there. For heaven's sakes, Alberta. Sorry about that. We just weren't expecting anybody, being Christmas Eve and all. Oh, that's okay. Special occasions call for special deliveries. And what kind of special deliveries do we have here? Well, this little beast needs to be put down. Now why would you want to have a little looker like this put down for? She'd probably have no problem finding a great home. Oh, well, I was supposed to be her forever home, that's why I adopted her. But then, once I got her home, I shortly realized that she's a complete lost cause. - A lost cause? - Mm-hmm. How so? Hmm? Well, um, she killed my cat. She killed your cat? She's barely the size of a cat. It was a very small cat. A kitten. Now are you sure we're talking about the same dog? This dog right here? Oh, yeah, don't be deceived by her charms, mister. I am telling you, this dog is a killer. She even killed some birds. Yep, in my back yard, she killed these, like, parrots, sparrow-looking things. A bird killer, huh? Well, I might just have to move this one to the top of my list. Wonderful. How soon can it be done? Sunday morning, on account of we're closed for Christmas. Well, but you said humanely, right? I mean, I don't want her to suffer or anything. Mm-hmm. Belle? Belle? Belle! Where do you think you're going? Shut up. I'm not covering you for this time and you will be totally busted. Why am I the only sane person in my family? Belle. Belle? Come here, Belle. Come here, Belle. - Hey, guys, no luck yet? - No. Come on. Let's you and I go this way and you guys go that way. Okay, fine, but do not go on the road unless you see Belle, okay? - Don't leave our subdivision. - Yes, sir. Belle? Belle? Thank God you're back. I don't know how to ice this thing. Don't worry, I have it all under control. - And the little dog, too? - I told you, everything. So you, like, killed it? - No, I didn't kill it. - Oh. What kind of a monster do you take me for? I took it to be euthanized. Oh. Oh! So I've exactly one hour to get this cake tiered into confection perfection and then I got to pick up the kids and Glenn, hold them for about five minutes while they cry over the untimely disappearance of their little mutt and then bring them back here in time for the contest, where they can have a nice big piece of my red velvet cake. Hmm? Thank you. Elliot, we should turn back. Maybe we passed her, or maybe your dad and Phoebe found her by now. Hey, look, we're gonna find her, okay? I will help you look for her every day until we do. I pinky promise. Okay, come on. Let's get back to the house. Belle, Belle? Hi, Kate, this is Glenn Barrows. I'm calling about Belle. It seems that she's gone missing and we can't find her anywhere. Could you please give me a call as soon as you get this message? Thank you. Elliot, did you ask Malcolm if he saw any sign of Belle this afternoon? His mom said he had to call back after they finished Christmas dinner. - Dad, we have to find her. - I know, honey. But there's nothing more that we can do right now. I still can't figure out how she got out the front door. I was sure we closed it. Hey! How's it going? Are we all ready to go have some delicious Christmas treats? Oh, why the long faces? It's Belle, she went missing this afternoon. We can't find her anywhere. Oh. Oh, that's just terrible. Oh, well-- do you have any idea where she could be? No, we've been up and down the block twice. We've asked everybody, nobody has seen any sign of her. Oh. Maybe if you guys go to the square, you could ask around. Maybe somebody has seen her running around. That's not a bad idea. But, Dad, I don't want to go to the square. If Belle comes back, I have to be here. Listen, I'm sure she's fine. I'm sure we'll find her. Let's just go up to the square and see. Maybe she's been running around up there. You're wasting your breath, lady. We ain't moving till Belle's back. Glenn, here. Listen, why don't we just leave the kids here? You could call Marnie and she could watch them. You know, 'cause this is my thing. I got to be there tonight. I know that, but Marnie, that's not gonna happen. She has this midnight mass with a lady she does every year. I'm sorry. Guys, see what she's wearing? She wasn't wearing that this morning. She's obviously been back to change since we left. Bet she's the one who left the door open-- on purpose. Ahem. Guys, listen. Why don't we go to the square and we can put up some missing puppy flyers? Okay, and then in the morning I promise you, we will go out and we will look for Belle again. But, Dad, if Belle comes back, I have to be here. Oh, Elliot, that's just not gonna happen. I mean, she's a puppy, they're not that smart. Who knows where she could be? I bet you know exactly where she is. I'm sorry? You took Belle. We know it was you. Pheeb, honey, it's pretty obvious that Belle went out the open front door. Probably because she left it open. I mean, you got to admit, it would be a lot easier for her to reach the front door handle than it would be for Belle to, that's for darn sure. Phoebe, I haven't been here today. Okay? I mean, I left the house before you did this morning. Yeah? Well, you weren't wearing that tacky dress the first time you left. Listen, I went to my house and I changed my clothes this afternoon, okay? That's a lie. I saw that ugly thing the first night when I was checking your bags for narcotics and firearms. You went through my suitcase? Phoebe, we do not go through other people's private belongings. You know better than that, young lady. Dad, she doesn't even care about us. She just wants you because you're a hot catch and you have lots of money. That's it. Phoebe, apologize to Dani right now. No, Dad. Phoebe's right. Dani did something to Belle. Just look at her, it's written all over her face. - Elliot, you are not helping. - And neither are you. You're being blindsided by that big-headed blonde. Oh! Guys, what is wrong with you? Knock it off. Do you know that Dani lost her mother at Christmas, too? You need to think about other people's feelings, too. Maybe the holidays are tough for other people as well. - But, Dad, she-- - No, but nothing, Elliot. Okay, Belle is gone right now, there's nothing we can do about it. But if we're gonna accuse somebody of doing something, you need to have evidence. All right? Then tomorrow, like I said, we will go and we will look for Belle. In the meantime, you guys are making me wonder whether you were ever responsible enough to have adopted this dog in the first place. Dani, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Dani. No. Hey, hey, I am so sorry. The kids, they didn't mean the stuff that they were saying. They didn't. They just-- I think they're just taking this whole dog thing so hard because they really just miss their mom. They do. And your bakery contest thing, it sounds like a lot of fun. I get it. It's just-- it's that I told all my co-workers that they were gonna meet this really great guy, you know? And it's all right, I'll just be by myself. Okay? I'll just be all alone, by myself like I always am. I'm very used to it, it's okay. - All right? - Dani. Come on. I feel terrible, but what else can I do? The kids won't go anywhere without Belle and I can't leave them here alone. Well, I mean, if you came with me for just a little bit, then you could put up those signs. I know somebody who could look after them. All right. Listen up. You will do exactly as I say or I will call the evil little elves to come and get you and take you away where you will be fed nothing but clear-colored snow cones without sugar and placed on an assembly line making fun toys for everyone but yourselves year round. Got it? Good. Now do you have any caramel glaze in the kitchen? Guys, we can't just sit here. Belle has to be out there somewhere right now and might really need our help. Well, what do you expect us to do? "Cheesecake Monster" over there sure isn't gonna let us out of her sights anytime soon. I know. We just have to figure out a way to get out of here. Hello? It's for you. But make it quick. Is it Dad? Did they find Belle? Not now. Sorry, Hambone. I was eating turkey. My mom says you called earlier. It's Belle, we can't find her. What do you mean you can't find her? She was gone tonight when we got home. And the front door was open. You didn't see her outside, did you? Nope, but I did see that big-headed blonde over there earlier this afternoon when I was giving Penny Reiner a Christmas Eve scare with my stampede string of Black Cats. She was here this afternoon? Um, I mean, you saw Belle where? I said I saw the big-headed blonde. Yeah, I heard what you said, but we actually can't go looking for Belle right now unfortunately, because my dad is not here and we've a sitter. You have a sitter? Yeah, a friend of my dad's new girlfriend. She's really nice, too. Dude, you're freaking me out. Are you in trouble or something? Yeah, we're pretty bummed about Belle, too, but sure, an early Christmas gift from you actually would lift my spirits, I think. Name the gift and Santa will deliver. Hey, no visitors tonight, okay? Wait. The babysitter says you can't bring it tonight, though. Santa don't wait for no sitter. Wait, what's that? You got me the same thing you got Penny Reiner? Wow, thanks, Malcolm. I love that awesome collection of, um... cat stamps. "Operation Jingle Belle Jailbreak" is in T-minus 10 minutes and counting. So Malcolm said he thought he saw Belle in Mr. Polinsky's back yard. Really? You can see their back yard from your room upstairs. I know, let's go. Belle! Belle, if you can hear me, wave one paw in the light. Sorry, kids, but your dog is not down in that yard. Well, guess it's a good thing. I was just worried about what Mr. Polinsky swore he would do if he ever caught our dog in his back yard. What did he swear he would do? Well, he said he would take his .22 rifle and open fire on our front lawn. But, Elliot, I always thought Mr. Polinsky was so nice. Huh, the craziest ones usually are. Mal-- Your neighbor, he sounds like a real loony. If I were you, I'd move away before he decides to blow this whole neighborhood. Kids, get down! It's not Santa! Has Mr. Polinsky gone postal? Elliot, I'll meet you outside. Hurry, hurry. Rugrats? Any of you still alive? Wow. Good job, Elliot. What? You guys tricked me! Yeah, and if you make even so much as one peep while we're gone, I'll call Santa and you'll be forced to shovel reindeer poop for an eternity. So what's next? Elliot's calling us a ride. But where are we going? We're going to save Belle. Come on. Ugh. What's taking Grandma so long? So I hear my merry mischief makers need a little lift into town. It's like a fallen ice skater's frostbit bottom out there. Are you kids getting in or what? Okay, so now what? We need to get inside the bakery and find Dani's purse. What do we need from her purse? Her address and her keys. If she took Belle, that's where she will be. Wait. What if we run into Dani or your dad moving through all these people? We'll be totally busted. Good point. Phoebe, let's get eyes on Dani and Dad, will you? Yeah, all right. Excuse me, mister, I'm having a hard time locating my father. Can I trouble you for an elevator ride up to your top floor? Well, sure, kid, and while you're up there, why don't you see if they've got a Danish? I think they're gonna run out before I can get to the table. - Okay. - Now, so you know, every piece... Oh, yeah, there's a big plate of them. ...I will make. Yay! All right, now the line starts right here, right by Santa. Man down, man down! Did she see you? No, I don't think so. And we're clear if we go around back. Dad and Dani are at the front. Phoebe, wait. Where are you going? Don't worry. Just get the keys and address. I'll meet you around back in 10 minutes. Okay. Come on. Oh, this cheesecake is amazing. Oh, I made the red velvet. Oh, yeah, that's not bad either. - Mmm. - Mm-hmm. It's so good. Thank you. Oh. Oh, you got a bunch in your-- right here. Your-- let me see. Yeah. I'm sorry, I'll be right back. That's all right. Mmm. Bingo. Bingo. I think I have it. 5217 Spicewood Road. Got them. Someone's coming. Hide! Ahem. Kate, hi. Thanks for calling me back. Sorry, I've been so busy with Christmas stuff. Have you guys found Belle? No, no, we have not yet, unfortunately. I'll come right over and help you guys look. Yeah, I'd like that. Great. I'll be at the house in 15. We can drive the kids around to find her. Okay, great. Wow. Run! You mischievous little mongrels! I don't know if you think you know what you're up to, but I can promise you, you won't get away with it! Ugh! Is everything all right? Oh, it's just all powdered sugar. Yeah, I can see that. - What? - 'Cause-- Oh, I'll be right back. Wait, wait, Dani, Dani, wait. I really need to get back for the kids 'cause they're gonna be so worried about Belle. Do you need to go clean up or do you mind if I go back? No, no, you just-- you go on home. It's okay. I'm sure the kids will be waiting for you with bells on. Well, just call me when you want me to come pick you up. - I'll just be a bit. - Okay. Give me a call then. That was a close call. That was awesome. Phoebe, where have you been? Found Dad's car down on the street corner, swiped his GPS. How else were we gonna go to Dani's house? You're a genius. Okay, it's only four blocks from here. We need to go that way. Wait. How did you get into a locked car? Where there's a woman, there's a way. Hey, Mom. Bet you're wondering why I'm out here all alone at night without Dad, huh? Well, don't worry too much. I'm not in too much trouble-- well, yet anyway. You see, Dad let us adopt this dog and I named her Belle, and she's this adorable, cream-colored shepherd and you would just love her. But I guess if you're looking down on me, you probably already know all of this, huh? Well, I guess I just wanted to let you know that no matter where I go or what I do, every time you see me smile, I think of you. Merry Christmas, Mom. We love you. - Kate, hi. - Hey. - Thank you so much for coming. - Yeah. - Sorry, it took me so long. - No, it's fine. - Did you knock on the door? - Yeah, they didn't answer. Really? Phoebe? Elliot? Kimmy? Hello? Oh. Looks like someone had a serious Christmas party. Kids? What the heck? - Oh. - Kimmy?! - Oh, my gosh. - Are you okay? What happened to you? Where are the kids? What happened to me are those kids! What do you mean? Where are the kids? - The kids did this to me! - Where are the kids? I don't know. They're probably looking for that dog they're all worried about. The kids think that Dani did something to the dog. You don't think they went to the bakery, do you? - I was just there. - I don't know. But whatever they're doing, it's probably illegal. Look, my kids may be a handful but they would never do something illegal. Okay, guys, let's look for signs everywhere, anywhere that Belle could possibly be. All right? - Okay. - Okay. I'm gonna take Mundy Lane to Carlson Circle. Great. Okay, I'll take Maple Drive to City Square. - Okay. - All right. Thank you. You've got to be kidding me. Jackpot. Hello, Dani, this is Linda. Remember me? Your mother? You're treating your father and me like we're dead, but we're not. We're in Florida and we thought we talked about you coming down for the holidays. Call me back. Love you, dear. Belle? Belle? I thought you'd be here. Where are you, girl? Hi, honey, we're just finishing up here, just cleaning up. I was wondering if you could pick me up in 20? Yeah, okay, but, Dani, have you seen the kids? - Have they been by there? - No, I haven't seen them. Okay, well, they left the house. I'm out looking for them right now. If they come by, will you please give me a call? Gosh, anything for your kids, honey, anything. Okay, thanks. Maybe Dad was right. Maybe Dani didn't really take Belle. And maybe we did just imagine all this in our heads because we don't like that Dad has a new girlfriend. But, Elliot, you weren't imagining that Dani is a terrible person. And just because Belle is not here, doesn't mean Dani is not responsible for her disappearance. Yeah, she could have left the front door open 'cause she knew Belle would go running outside looking for you. But, guys, it doesn't matter. Belle isn't here. If she's not here, then I have no idea where she could possibly be. And if I can't find her, then I can't save her! So what? So Belle is not here. So we go home and start over again tomorrow. Recruit more help and start another search. And we keep looking for her until we find her. The world doesn't work that way, Riley. I keep looking and waiting for my mom all the time. But look around, she's still not here, is she? And it's 'cause she's never coming back. And sooner or later, we need to accept that Belle isn't either. Elliot, you're right. Sometimes rotten things happen to us, and there's nothing we can do about it. But that doesn't mean we should give up on everyone else who still loves us and needs us. I mean, what if Belle's out there right now, and she's hurt or scared and still needs our help? Do you really think Belle would give up on you that easy? Or would your mother have, if she was still here? You know what? You're right, Riley. My mom would never have given up. So neither can we. Christmas is still the season of hope and Belle has to be out there somewhere still, and counting on us to find her. Then let's go get her. Hello, you've reached the answering service of Daniela Downy and although I can't get to the phone at the moment, please feel free to leave me a pleasantry and I'll be sure to return it soon. Dani, it's Kimmy. You wouldn't believe what those snarky little tarts did to me. Anyway, I just wanted to give you a heads-up. Their dad's looking for them now. But I think they went to find that dog. So you better call the pound and make sure they remove that pup from visibility until someone pulls the plug on it. We have to get to the pound before they close. But they're probably already closed. Then we break in. We have to. There might not be much time. Dani is trying to have her put to sleep. But we can't put the pound into the GPS because we don't even know where we're going and we don't even have their address. Right. We need someone with a phone and a car. Who do we know? Well, if we had proof, we could call Dad. No, it's too late. We can't call Dad. He's already out looking for us, which means we're in a ton of trouble. Is there anyone else? Wait, I know someone. We're not going. Christy, no, you promised you would take us to the pound. Yeah, well, that was to get you in the car. I'm now 30 minutes late for my champagne cider party because of you, and Troy already went without me because I had to pick up you and your sweaty little friends back there. But, Christy, Elliot's dog's life is at stake here. If the dog is there, Elliot's dad can take them to pick it up Sunday. Psst. Hey, Riley. 20 bucks to prove you're right. And I know you need it after Dad cut off your allowance for failing algebra. It's locked. Hey, mister, sorry to bother you on Christmas Eve, but I think you have our dog in there. Oh, yeah? What makes you think that? Well, we think the lady dating our dad dropped her off so you guys could kill her. How do you know it's really yours? - Is it microchipped? - Not yet. We've only had her for a couple of days. - What's it look like? - She's a cream-colored shepherd. Small, cute, fluffy. "Small, cute, fluffy." No, I don't got no cute dogs in here. She would have been dropped off today by a big-headed blonde lady. Oh, yeah, the bird-killer. "Bird-killer"? Belle never killed any bird. How would you know? You just said you've only had her for a few days. Because I think I know my own dog pretty well, okay? All right, fine. That'll be 60 bucks and you can buy the little mutt back. 60 bucks? We don't have 60 bucks. Here, this is all we have left. You don't got 40 more dollars, I don't got no bird-killer for you. Ugh. Now what? Come on, I've got an idea. ...the more the muscle's gonna grow, okay? Take a look at what I've done here. No freaking way. Those toes just aren't gonna pedicure themselves. Hi. My name is Christy Kane. You know, like a candy cane? - Hi. - I'm sorry to bother you, but I was just on my way home from this apple cider party and I just had way too much cider, you see, and I just don't think I can wait till I get home, so may I use your ladies' room? Yeah. My bird drinks way too much apple cider, too. Come on. Bathroom is right through there. Just holler at me if you need any toilet paper or anything. Thanks. "Toilet paper." Stupid! Belle! So how are we gonna get her? You guys are just gonna stay here and when he goes back in that office, we're just gonna sneak up and spring him out really fast, so we all can run right out of here, okay? But, Elliot, what about the others? We can't just leave the other dogs here. This is the pound. They'll all be doomed unless we save them. I know, but we can't fit all of them in your sister's car. There's not enough room. There's a bunch of other dogs in here. We may not be able to fit all of them in your fine sister's car, but I bet we can fit some of them into that pound van we saw out back. We just need keys. And as it just so happens, I happen to know a really good key thief. - All better now? - Yeah. Thanks, I really appreciate you letting me use your restroom. Yeah. Which translates to I wouldn't stand on that toilet in my cheapest pair of shoes. And a very merry Christmas to you. Merry Christmas to you, too, Miss Kane. Ooh. Huh. Malcolm, now you pull the van up so we can load. Riley, you and I will need to take one side. We'll go down one by one till all the dogs are out safely, all right? Come on. Phoebe, let's go! What are you kids doing? Malcolm, let's move! I have to call the police. Malcolm...? You okay, girl? I've been worried sick about you. It's good to have you back. You did all right tonight, Elliot. I didn't think you had it in you. I did. But, guys, how are we gonna feed all these dogs tomorrow? The pet stores won't be open on Christmas. We can call Kate from the rescue. She will know what to do with them. Who is that following us? I think it's that crazy dog catcher. Uh-oh. Dad's on our trail now, too. Oh, man, if I get arrested, my mom's gonna kill me! Pull over before he causes a wreck. Now that we have Belle, my dad will get us out of trouble. Pull over right there! I'm trying! Whoa! No, not my cake! Is everybody okay? We're great, Dad. Look, we even found Belle. So how was your night? Get out. - You need some help up? - Oh. But, Dad, we had to take the other dogs or else he was gonna kill them. Elliot, that is not your place. Okay, you should know that stealing someone's vehicle is a very serious offense, especially if that vehicle belongs to the city. Oh. Oh, you must be from the pound. Yeah, look, I'm so sorry about any trouble this might have caused you tonight, but it's a big mix-up. See, this dog here, this actually is our dog. Yeah? Well, if you want it back, it's gonna cost you, Mr. Fancy Pants. Um... Okay. How much for the dog, and, you know, to keep this little Christmas incident between the two of us? What? For that amount-- Okay, okay. Sure, that's just fine. No plastic. No. No, of course. All right. Um... Thanks. You can just return my van after you transport the pups. Enjoy them. Thanks, Dad. You're our hero. Yeah. And sorry we left the house without your permission. Well, that's okay, actually I'm sorry. I apologize to you guys. I should have never left you on Christmas Eve. But, we still have plenty to talk about, okay? And don't even think about keeping any more of these dogs. We are not gonna do that. We will, however, find homes for each and every one of them. And you guys will have plenty of time to look because you're both grounded. Wait, where's Belle? Oh, no. Oh, this is all your fault, you mangy, little homewrecking-- Oh! Back off, big-headed blondie. We know you lied and we know you took Belle and left her at the pound to be killed. Glenn, do you hear this? Do you hear what they are accusing me of? Oh, come on. What kind of proof do you have anyway? It's all on this machine. Including a recent message from your mom, who must somehow be calling from the grave... or is it Florida? Wait, you broke into my house and you stole things? It's not really breaking in when you have the keys. Plus, we did it for the right reason, unlike you, who took Belle and stole jewelry that was my mother's for your own gain, right? Is that my wife's necklace? Um, I-- I was just trying it on and I was going to return it, but I just-- I got busy with the cake and the children's hospital and everything. I was just trying to-- How do you see yourself, Dani? Are you one of those people who expects some kind of reward with every single good deed that you do? Have you ever just one time done something kind and loving just because it was the right thing to do? I already have my opinion on that. May I have my wife's necklace, please? Let's go, kids. Your red velvet? It needs work, too. She's right about your red velvet, Dani. Oh, and by the way, you're fired, dear. Well, if it looks like a duck, quacks like a duck, it's probably a golddigger. Maybe you ought to go on home, see your folks. It is the holidays after all. I can't stand my folks. That's why I'm like this. 'Tis the season to forgive, little lady. Besides, I wouldn't wait around for Santa. He's not gonna bring you any gifts this year. � - You all right there, Marn? - Ooh. Midnight mass is still talking to me. Ooh. Ooh, that's probably Kate from the shelter. You kids sure lived up to your merry mischief maker nickname this year. Elliot, it's for you. Hi. Hey. Guess what? I can keep him. Really? That's awesome. Yeah, they were so terrified that I wasn't in bed last night, so they couldn't say no. Thanks. Rufus will love having this on the days we can't see Belle. Which hopefully won't be many. Merry Christmas, Riley. Merry Christmas to you, Elliot. ♪ Angels we have heard on high ♪ ♪ Sweetly singing o'er the plains ♪ ♪ And the mountains in reply ♪ - ♪ Echoing their joyous strains... ♪ - Hey, guys, get out here. ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ In excelsis Deo... ♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ In excelsis Deo. ♪ Wow. That was amazing. - Oh, my pleasure. - Wow. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas to you. - Hi. - Hey. How are the dogs? They are safe and sound. Right. Hey, well, come on inside, please. Everybody, please come on inside for some eggnog, maybe a hot toddy, some hot chocolate. Come on, come on.



