A BELFAST STORY (2013) - FULL TRANSCRIPT

foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- UFF? Easy going, they only killed 50 people. He was finished. To do that in LVF territory... You mean by a fecking... You know I hate balmy wars. Now he's attacked by UDA men. Heavens, EvF came for them and that was that, sort of. The ARB's dead and gone. And then he was red hot and on the run underground. I don't know the provost. - You have the whole story. - Rid IRA? You're nuts. They don't know how to make a bomb. A poet told a story of a boy walking under ice, shooting a man as he ate his breakfast, an ulster fry. Then he turned to his wife and said: "Sorry, Mum." To understand Northern Ireland, you have to realize a strange war was fought here. There were no heroes, no defining battles. Only casualties. People die defending their daily lives, not always their causes. The trouble with The Troubles is you can't put a border between neighbors. Then the story was told again. This time better. They flew in in jets, talked up a ceasefire and told us that it was all over now. The past is in the past. Let it sleep. This is Belfast, and this is a Belfast story. Lost years. And it still echoes. Right this way, sir. Chief Constable wanted to brief you personally, about the scene. Mistake dug this house years ago. So many cold rainy nights. Always. Always raining. This way, sir. Ah, James. - So glad you could make it. - Mm. Come inside. - You too, um... - Damien, sir. What we have here is a gruesome motiveless murder of an old pensioner, to make matters worse. Pardon, sir, but this address has history. Well, yes, a connection was never proven so we'll have to leave that. We wouldn't want to start the press on political bias again, would we? And the important thing is you apply all your undoubted skills to find the killer and dealing with any of the intricacies this case may present. Now I see why I've been plucked off the scrap heap. The problem has raised it's ugly head, eh? And the motives go way back. Deep. And that got said, you need someone for damage control. Someone is about to disappear anyway. Someone about to retire. Someone like me. You know what your problem is, James? You have exactly the wrong kind of intelligence. You're too clever just to take orders. You have to look behind them. But then you're not smart enough to benefit from your knowledge. No wonder you're the last of your stubborn kind. Still, I know you'll do a splendid job. Show us around then, Damien. Body was found upstairs. And neighbors reported an explosion at approximately 4 a.m. It was in an empty room on a chair surrounded by needles. Messy. Very messy. I'll find him. Show James the lead, Damien. In the unused bedroom, a great deal of money was found and a note. And it read, "Official receipt for expenses. Two-hundred and fifty thousand pounds removed from known criminal revenue." And scrawled below it was the word justice. Did you count the rest? Five hundred thousand pounds remain. Well, you can add that to your sob story then. They took a third of his pension. I'm gonna leave you to get on with your work, James. I'm assigning Damien here to assist you with any leg work or paper filing. Any resources you need, consider them yours. I have to be away. I have a small speech to prepare. There was two of them. How do you know? A lot of nails to carry up the stairs and one of them had to watch your man while the other dug the money out. Could that have been done afterwards? After the explosion? You don't hang around after a bang like that. They crouched in the garden, waiting for something. My guess is the old man got up bright and early. They were waiting for a light. What makes you think he was awake when they came? The bed sheets weren't ruffled. Nobody was dragged out of that bed. No. They waited for a light and they melted the bolt and charged up the stairs. Then what happened? They tied him to the chair. Tied? Aye. Why else would he have been so close to the blast? It also fits the executionary style. Near the nail bolt. That was his weapon of choice back in the day. These boys were sending a message. After that, the money? Aye. One of them would have stood over him, while the other went to look for the money. What kind of justice is that? This is Belfast. Sir? Are you coming? I'm sorry, sir. It's just that you need to know there's been a murder. I've just taken the call. An elderly IRA veteran was killed in his home. It was a bomb. Oh, not now. The Chief Constable says he'll sit on it for as long as he can. I just can't help him again. We've suffered enough. I thought you'd want to know right away. Of course. We must reassure the people that no matter what the consequence, we are not going backwards. I'm building on a foundation of peace. But it will crumble quickly. I'll begin drafting right away. You want me to have Eammon take a look? Aye. You better. I know this is a lot of my own making. - But I need time to change it. - I know. And we don't need old enemies picking off old friends. This could be worse. This could be the start of something new. - I'm walking with the ghosts. - Sir? Every week, I come here to face the ones I failed to save. Not your fault, sir. It reminds me of what's really important. Not the battles, not the politics. The people. You see, I count corpses, not causes. All I want is a bright new day in my city. We're living in the shadows of the past. I know. Come on, sir, we're not going back there. And, sir, listen. It wouldn't surprise me if the IRA deal with us before we get a chance to. That's what I'm afraid of. Another war. Get in, will you? Well, as you can see, I stopped walking my son to school. It's a dangerous world out there. I saw him once. He was coming out the court out of the amnesty. I was on the beat, holding back the victim's relatives. Never seen such contempt read large in someone's face. So someone is definitely hunting down ex-IRA men. Aye. Unh! Someone with a grievance. And a sense of irony. You sound as if you think something like this could be justified. Vigilantes can never be justified. You're a man of old principle. Just a man of principle. Not too many of them around, that's all. So it's been a while since you've come looking for me. Must be needing something done. Aye. You've heard about the killings? Who hasn't? Except those that don't matter. What do you reckon? Could be nothing, could be a paramilitary shade. One death in this city is either unnoticed or the start of some shit storm. Anyway, you didn't come here for my political assessment. - What do you want? - I want you to look around. Check out the usual agents. Warn them off or just tell youse all about it? Just call in, Eammon. We're in a different business these days. The end of the alley from hereabouts, one of these houses. They never would've ventured further that way. They knew someone in here. Now, how could you be knowing that? It's just to see them all the way along the street. Remember the makeshift barricades were just down there. It took the army two years to work up the nerve to move them. Mm. That side, nothing. Three yards this way? Eammon and his friends are pelting you with Molotov cocktails. Shall we go house to house then, question the residents? Well, enjoy. You'll get there. At least I know what's already here. Oh, they look after their own. Or try. They knew his escape route. What does that tell you? What does that tell me? It tells me that someone's cleaning house. And are bloody good at it. But they'll make a mistake. Angry people always do. Anything I can do for you, sir? I thought we might have a quick word. Better handle them formally. Oh, and I appreciate you calling my office about the unpleasantness. It's always good to hear about these things early in the day. Of course, sir. We mustn't let things get out of hand. We're sculpting hope from ashes. It's a delicate process that can bear no interruption. I've chosen the best man for the job. He'll see it through. Discretion? Personified. You must explain to the world that Northern Ireland will not descend into violence again. You won us this peace and we'll maintain it. These are your people. They're hunting you, Colum. They're gonna kill you. Colleen, love, we've discussed this. Those people who died have retired. They had no protection. I've kept this in case this sort of thing ever happened. And I've contacts keeping an eye out for us. They won't get me. Colleen? I'm going in to work with Kelly, love. When I'm gone, call the police. Tell them you thought you heard someone tampering with the car. And then take Marian and get a taxi to your sisters. Kelly? Yeah, it's me. I need a spin. Right now, yeah? They think they're so smart, these boys. Reckon that I would drive my car without checking it proper? It's not that easy. You know, if it were me against some sophisticated target, I would've gone for a roadside. If it was me, I'll never go near a car again. Then you never think it will be you. I can't have it. The press are going wild. I want this bloody mess cleared up. And I want an assurance we are not going back there. Not on my watch. Sir, it's difficult to discern a clear pattern. Especially without laying the blame on loyalists because all the victims were ex-IRA. That isn't good enough. I want these people caught. Now I think you have a theory, James. You tell me. We're talking internment conditions, remember them? I will take anyone off the street, evidence to follow later. That is not gonna work and you know it. Just find my man. - Give me my peace back. - Ugh. I've spent half my life cleaning up bloody messes. Some coming in for causes, some for revenge, some for fun. I know these people. I will find them. All right, all right. What have you got? Well, the only pattern we can see is the victims are all IRA. That would indicate loyalist vengeance, but they're not even celebrating. So that leaves us with a highly motivated, previously unknown force? Uh, I still think this is a private vendetta. I just can't figure out why they are targeting the whole IRA. Most people have a specific grudge. Well, if a specific grievance cannot be found then are we gonna assume it's political? I could be wrong. Maybe somebody is trying to restart the war. - What then? - God help us. Where's your party? Eammon. Been a while. What brings you back to the E Street? I'm thinking someone might be crossing the water. Can you see any young ones making a move? No. I still keep on watch. Maybe a few years since everyone went quiet but I stand vigilant. I didn't see anything. Anything? No. They've been staying their side of tracks. Haven't been over in force in a while. I would have raised the alarm. Not a soul? Are you sure? No. We keep watch. Night and day as we do. Carry on. Aren't those nice jacket, Mitt? Aye, too nice for an old shite like yourself. Ah, bloody peace. This city used to be too hard for the likes of them. It won't start again, sir. Hmm, no chance. You think not. I will see. No. If it's possible. I don't know. I'll, uh... I'll talk to you later. Hi, Sinead. You're still the only woman who could hold my eye. Sure, now, Owen. You've always known what you want. And I was a close second. Aah. I have to think of all the fun we had. Oh, you've moved on, and up I see. But you're not going to the politics game yourself. Uh, the door is always open. I have too much baggage. And my life is better for it. Why virus? Why is it always our lot? Revenge leads to revenge. No one is ever happy until they are grieving at you. We need something new. Not just the same tired old thing. Please, God... Not always the same tired old pattern. For years, I chased every agent with a bomb. Orange or green? Another force of the earth... Sending me to deal with this. A last whimper of The Troubles. None of our arising stars wanna be associated with that. There's no change in the world when what you want is what you can't have. But a piece would be nice. No, that's not important. I can't see beyond the IRA connection. So you bring in the usual other suspects? Nah. They were never capable of something like this even at their height. We need reinforcements too. You'll protect the IRA boys who might become targets. Oh, and that... Look into those wiretaps I was talking to you about, hmm? Aah. I have to rush back to the office, sir. Somebody messed up an application for some case files. I'm so sorry, sir. I should be back, won't take long. How long have you got? I said it was paperwork, so not too long. How is our old friend? I'm keeping a close eye on him as you said to. Drop him off at night, linger there just make sure he doesn't go anywhere else. He's with me from morning on. And you're keeping a list of everyone he talks to? Every file he looks into? Every piece of paper he signs? Aye, sir. He doesn't seem much interested in paperwork, sir. - I do most of it anyway. - Good. You understand, um, this may all have to go away very quickly? Aye. It will be easy done. Stick terribly close to him. I'm afraid he may find those responsible and then be so overcome with morality, he won't hand them over to their, um, fate. You'll have to step in very quickly if he shows any sign of going native. Why did you choose him, sir? All of my connections are generally with the other side. He knows the loyalist militias. He's around when their informers were managed. He's in the same communities as these avengers. Not many left in the force, that that can be said of. And my sympathies lie entirely with the new order. No sense in mixing worlds. It, um, complicates things. Aye. What about himself? Don't put him through that again. He'll be back in a minute. Your man is a million miles away. Murders, past or present, what do you reckon? Makes no difference to James. He knows what all those lads did. Or he thinks he does. Don't knock the man. He has a heart of gold. Ah, he certainly has, but what does he got to show for it? You didn't know him when he was young and fierce. I remember one time, the whole street exploded and he still managed to clip the heels of the guilty lad. Aye, and inconclusive evidence. They got their man off, and he still got house bond for his troubles. The world is strange... And to other news, three elderly men from different Belfast addresses have all been reported missing. All three had been tried for offenses during The Troubles but not convicted. Among them is a prominent Republican spokesman... Ah, that's me away, lads. I wonder whether he gets his man this time. - Well, here's to "this time." - Here's to "this time." It's a long way to come looking for missing Belfast. Aye, well... We're looking for his spokesman. This is where he did his speaking. Huh, shit. Imagine being lectured on your moral failings by a terrorist. I'm sorry, Kevin. Some people just don't know when the war is over. They will when I get hold of them, yes, they will. I'm haunted, Owen. The past is too strong for me. We need to come clean. Be rid of it. Past is the past. Let it sleep. It's not sleeping, it's consuming me. Calm yourself. You're safe with me. You can't defend me against my conscience. You have a duty to your former comrades as well. They're here. I think they're all dead. Shit. Of course they're here. Of course they're dead. Oh, these boys know their history. We have their message. So this is where they made the old farm? Them and the Brits' shoot-to-kill policy. Aye. You have a point. Shoot to kill should never have been the policy of any civilized government. Three more bodies. It's an epidemic. If it wasn't for the remoteness of this godforsaken place, we have the press here all over us. I know. I know. There's something I'm missing. - Unh. - But I will find them. You miss the point, James. You speak as if we're operating in a vacuum. The fact that only some sort of miracle is preventing a general panic has obviously alluded you. That is not happening because this time, everybody knows that those being killed have blood in their hands. Are they less entitled to our protection then? No. But they maybe facing more than we're able to protect them from. Fancy supper, please. - Salt and vinegar? - Yeah. - Fish and chips. - Salt and vinegar? Cheers. - Fish and chips. - Salt and vinegar? I'll have all. Come on. Where? Where was it? Paddy. Paddy. Paddy? I'm sorry. Paddy. It's just supposed to be diamonds. God help me. I know you're so important with your son. But I'm glad you met an early grave. I will never forget that little girl. You remember when they let you out of jail? Thinking to myself... If there's any justice in the world... ...you will meet some fate. It's too glamorous. Too obvious. This is a decoy. Just a decoy. These boys are building a forest to hide a tree. Come on. About freaking time. Listen, Owen, the detective boys are on to something. Now I need to know what it is if you still want me to find these lads. Pardon me? Sorry, love. Wrong number. Tell your boss I called. Prick. It brings out the flavor, which is essential in a dish like this. One of the things people often ask me is how they can obtain more variety within the confines... Now, you see... What do you want? Some of your old friends are being killed. And what's that got to do with me? I'm investigating the case. I'm here to offer you police protection. Oh, with your consent, of course. Why would I take protection off a lawless policeman like yourself? Truth be told, your sympathies probably lie with these lads killing people. Go on celebrate your last hurrah. I am here to enforce the law of the land. Even if that means protecting scum like you from a fate you deserve. You take your moral high ground, years spent suppressing us to preserve your way of life. I went after anyone who broke the law. Both sides, yours and mine. Let's talk about one of yours for a minute, eh? Murder expert. Big man, killed a lot of policemen in the barracks. One day, he needed some gelignite. So he sent three young boys to collect it for him. Gelignite is not too stable. Took half the building with them. All that was left to show one poor father was a tongue. So we're both hard men. I can drink to that. It's easy to set a bomb. It takes a hard man to clean up afterwards. The lights are lit. Your monitor in the radio says it will be over in 5. Aye, he's not worth missing something over. All units, we have a shooting. It appears fatal. They're gonna kill me, Owen. They know. That's not gonna happen. It's not life I fear for, it's truth. Oh, it's tragic, isn't it? So senseless violence. That was a world ago. On a different time. And the innocents? Sometimes sacrifices have to be made. There's not a day goes by I don't think of those who lost their lives in the cause or because of it. And it's their memory and legacy that these modern day killers directly attack. Of course. And to survive such terrible things... It's no wonder you're so desperate to lead us away from them. Aye. The irony is they only put up those barriers after his mortar attacks. They spent years trying to put a stop to his violence. These boys come and do it in a few seconds. At great cost though, sir. And also, if you can check... This is not a good time. Use the normal line. You haven't been answering yourself. Have you gotten your squeeze? It's tough at the top. I'll call you later. I have wanted to do this for years. I have been terrified that someone would seek to harm me. Now I... I'm only scared that I might die before I would get to tell the truth. I have bombed and killed. And not a day goes by that I do not pray for forgiveness. I'm not sure anymore that you're even trying to solve this thing. Pardon? An old shopkeeper has been killed. And just because he was an IRA bomber, you don't care. Your politics are preventing you from keeping the peace. I lost everything I value. My politics and my opinion are the least of my sacrifices. Who...? My daughter. She was everything to me. I'm sorry. I didn't me... I'll go for a little stroll. I'll see you later. You're home early, dear. Aye. I needed a spot of lunch and some time to think. Is everything all right? I don't know. I always thought I knew but maybe I never did. You're tired, love. You've been working too hard. Aye. I'll keep at it. Uh... Sorry. I'll eat out after all. You better get on. Another pensioner and suspected IRA pipe bomber killed. Cause of death? Heart attack. Clever boys. Clever boys. Oh, yeah. They knew that he had built so many of these in his day. Just the sound of a detonator would be enough to kill him. What sort of sick person would kill a man due to die in days anyway? I considered it myself many times. He took my daughter and 12 others. Rest in peace. How are you holding up, big man? I wanted to kill him. So help me, I wanted to. Yeah, but you didn't. No. A lot of good it did. He's dead anyway. - He's dead. - I heard. It's still not bringing her back. No. She's been at peace for too long to be troubled. Why send me? That was 20 years ago. I must look to the future, not always to the tragedies of the past. You represent Sarah Aaron in my place. Who invited her? What are you doing here? I'm representing Sarah Aaron, trying to show respect for your loss. Feck off, will you? Away with you! You work for a murderer, fine. But don't bring his flowers to our loved one's graves. Where the hell have you been? Around. Same as you. - Well? - Not a thing. Checking all the usuals. You've never let me down before. Why now? Too much easy living? You sound a little nervous, big man. Don't you worry. These are still nice streets. For old time's sake. I'll find these clever wee lads and finish them. Fair winds, old friend. Hello, sir. How long do we know each other? Uh, a long time, sir. I can't believe we're here. Do you know how many cases that piss our ass like this one? Aye, he always had a lawyer and a gun handy. It would be wanted here this time. You mark my words. We have here a warrant to search Mr. Sullivan's home in relation to an ongoing investigation about the deaths of several prominent Republicans. The Northern Ireland Police Service has noted publicly that your client is not under suspicion in any way, but rather we are acting preemptively out of concern for his safety. My client welcomes your concern but unfortunately, he's across the border in business at the moment. - All right, just up there. - Aye. - Aye. Okay. - One over here. - All okay? - It's fine. What do you stand for? What's upsetting you? Seeing the pain you caused. I always believed you, your ideals. The rest was just the past. In war, things happen. Terrible things. I don't know what sad soul told you there was. But I stand before you willing to make it right. How can you? When you won't accept the consequences of your own actions? You're... You're the problem. That's true. I've seen some terrible things. But I am unique. I connect the evilest of those on our side with the means... I built the consensus that brought us peace. And your continuing presence destroys it. You don't understand. You're too young. You don't remember the causes. That's true. So I don't have to let them mold the future. Yeah? Where? I got you, you bastards. The past is the past. Let it sleep. - We're at peace, Damien. - What kept you, sir? I had some business to attend to. I thought I'd catch you for a quiet word at the same time. Anyway, I just heard from the Big Man. - Owen? - Yeah. He's concerned. He says that South Ireland doesn't have the resources for taking action on this sort of thing anymore. He wants us to throw our weight behind our Unionist detectives. And, by any means possible, put a stop to these killings. But that's just what we've been on. It's worse. He's admitting the UIR can't handle these lads. They've met their match in the rough stuff department. And are appealing to friends they made in the police force. He's made it clear he expects these friends to deliver. So, what's the problem? We keep doing what we've been doing, except... No. Not exactly. I didn't haul myself out of the same gutter Owen did before I played into the hands of others. It's a new dawn. I should have smelled it earlier. So, what are we to do? The IRA had become old men. Cringing politicians turned so legitimate they can't defend their own lies. We mailed them. But they're in no position to call in a favor. And, may never be again. We help James. Make it seem we're pushing him through. When he finds this new force of his, ha, ha, and he will, we let them finish the job that they started. They get their revenge and go home happy. And as we embrace a new Belfast without an IRA, we shall be left with those left standing. Sacrament most holy, sacrament divine, all praise and all thanksgiving be every moment thine. Through him, with him, in him, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, all praise and honor are yours, Almighty Father. Forever and ever. Sorry, lads, we're a bit lost. Is there a petrol station near here? I knew you'd come. But what does it matter now? You've lost. You're the last of the loyalist scum. And no one wants you. You flatter yourselves like you came up like innocent victims. But you didn't. You came because you've lost your colony. And now it's time for you to go home. But home doesn't want you either. You're the bastard sons of a fallen empire. With so much blood on your hands, you're just looking for someone to blame. Someone who resisted. I'm one. Do whatever you want to me, you fuckers. More will rise in my place, we'll drive them to the sea. You fucking Protestant loyalist. Murderers. Rapers of Irish sovereignty. I'm a Catholic Irishman from Newry. I came about my family. My father was a good Nationalist. He believed in the United Irish Republic. He was never a rich man. He ran a small petrol station near the border. Then one day, your folks came by to buy it at a knocked down price. They explained it was needed for fund raising as part of your IRA smuggling empire. My father replied that it was his living. And he couldn't support my family without it. Your lads were a little more heavy-handed then than they are today. At the end of the month, his mutilated body was found in the river on your farm. The property somehow got re-deeded. My mother was never the same. A month later, she died of grief. Leaving me and my brothers and sisters orphaned. And at the time, the IRA had a heavy disciplinary hand, so no one would take us in. In the end, they put us all up for adoption. Separately. I was sent to Belfast. All my siblings went to England. I've been trying to trace them ever since. But the documentation was all lost, or obscured during The Troubles. I lost my whole family. Not surprisingly, I sat out the rest of The Troubles. I wanted an Ireland free for all men. Neither of yous wanted that. So I'm gonna give you a chance to defend yourself with your favorite weapon. Of course, they won't hold me down the way they did my father. And I'll have one as well. He's dead. Enough. You could still tell who he is. No one knew my father. Mm-hm, okay. James. So sorry not to have caught you earlier and saved you a trip. Wonderful news. I managed to fast track your retirement payment. You'll be clear of all this rot. - Sir, about the case... - Don't worry about that at all. I've had Damien here pick up all your files. You won't have to think about any of these dreadful things anymore. You'll... You'll be at peace. But, sir, I found the killers. I know who they are. Leave it, James. You can do no more good here. Take care now, sir. You can keep the rest. Lucky aim, man. Aggravating, isn't it? Running from one fret into another. Reminds me of the night you and our heroic first minister dropped car bombs all over the city. Don't worry, I'll get him myself. Clean sweep. Who the hell are you? The question is, who I should have been. I should have been free to raise my wee boy without your legacy of violence and lies. I want him to grow up and not know your version of right and wrong. Someone always has to buy the last round. Ahead of this evening's Saor Éire Nordash. Rioting has broken out in several areas where loyalist communities have bumped the police cordon. Soon Ireland's president and the first minister of Northern Ireland, who will be delivering the main speech tonight has called for... Let him through. He's harmless. Not so long ago, I believed... Owen, they're going to kill you. Don't go out there. For once, listen. Owen? Owen. This is my city. A world of my own making. Owen? We interrupt the scheduled broadcast to bring you very important breaking news. We can now confirm that while addressing tonight's Saor Éire Nordash in Belfast, the first minister of Northern Ireland, Owen McKenna, has been shot. Don't you want to hear what happened, love? I already know. - Hi, inspector. - Hi. How's the retirement going? It's been two months already, isn't it? Yes, seems to have flown by. - Here you go, sir. - Thanks. All right. Take care. Is violence ever justified? You seen enough to know that it's not. You've heard my story. And I'm grateful for your silence, which I'll take as sympathy. But maybe there's a better explanation of why we did what we did. My friend once explained to me that he'd had a wee boy and it changed his life. All he wanted was a peaceful world for his son. He will pay any price for that. One day, a politician was being driven through their street. His wee son asked: Who's that, Dad? Somebody who used to kill people. But he doesn't anymore. - Did he go to jail? - No. We wanted it all to end, so wee ones like you could grow up safe. Eh? And his reply shocked himself. He told me afterwards, that at that moment, he realized he would rather live in a world where every misfiring car would send him diving to cover his son from a bomb blast, than in a world of peace where his son couldn't distinguish between right and wrong. I happen to agree with him from more bitter personal experience. So with an eye on the future, we decided to bury the past. Not in silence, but in justice. To let it sleep. So won't you? I'm going for a walk, dear. See a new day born. And on this historic day, as Ulster take their seats, we can all welcome in a new world, a united Ireland. Whole and at peace. A dream that...



