A BOY A GIRL AND A DEAD CAT (1999) - FULL TRANSCRIPT

foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (upbeat music) - I can't believe you're not ready. - I'm not going. I can't tie this thing. - I see you opted for the manual model. - It's hopeless. They gave me this at at the tux place, but it might as well be calculus. ♪ Please don't worry ♪ - Do I have to do everything for you? Okay read instructions. Nu-huh, stand up. ♪ Maybe sometime you'll find someone ♪ ♪ You'll find love ♪ - How to tie a bow tie in six easy steps. Place the tie around your neck with one end slightly up. I got that far. - Keep reading. - Flip the long end over and under and up over the shorter end. The two ends should be equal lengths. Length is a big word. - [Denise] No editorial comments. Go on. - Lift the top end over the outer end. Here you wanna look at the picture? - Keep reading. ♪ You don't have to run ♪ - Loop the other end with the loop in the center of band with your index finger at the throat. I hope you're getting all this. Make a loop at the top end. Bring it behind the center to where your finger is to form a knot. Pull both loops... - That's fine. I'm done. ♪ So many changes ♪ ♪ It puts you through ♪ - Now if you could just go in my place. - Come on, get yourself together and let's get out of here. Gord. Gordo? Gordon my love. - I don't know how I'm gonna face her. - Which her? - Take your pick. - You know, I don't have to tell you that there's at least one female in your life who hasn't deserted you. What's this? - Very funny. - Buck up, young man. This is the night. This is the night of nights, buddy boy. Time of our lives that we'll remember for as long as we live. La Piece de la resistance of our high school careers. A full on totally awesome gnarly dude coolest place to be. The epic event foretold since the beginning of the school year, the mother of all dances. Damn it, this is the prom, my good man. ♪ Throw away your smoking gun ♪ ♪ Throw away your smoking gun ♪ (car horn honking) ♪ No, no ♪ (car horn honking) ♪ No, no ♪ (gentle music) - I don't believe you two. - Oh tush, tush, thou roguish tickled brained miscreant. Dare to be different and all that. - Usually don't have to try, but this... - Enough about me. Look at you. Aren't we a tasty little morsel. Straight from the top of the wedding cake, I'd say. - Is he going to be like this all night? - Rein it in a bit, Prancer. What is in your hand? Ah, ma petite Amie. - Wouldn't you like to know? Some men give flowers. I give the whole bush. See there's a little tag in there tells you... how to help plant it. How to take care of it. But until it blooms, here's a little bud for my mistress. - I don't know where I'd plant it, but I love it. You're so sweet. And here's your Fleur du jour. (gentle music) - [Gordon] Are we ready? - Thy coach and six. Enchante, monsieur. Oh, thank you. (upbeat music) - To the ball, Jeeves. (upbeat music) (engine whirring) Where did you get the driver? - [Denise] Cracker Jack box. ♪ No one ever made me feel ♪ ♪ Quite so real as you do ♪ ♪ And I'll have to say ♪ ♪ What's for you ♪ - [Gordon] So what's this girl like? - This girl has a name. - So what's Violet like? - She's a girl to fulfill each and every one of your romantic, social, emotional. - Sexual, educational, nutritional. - And spiritual needs. The girl - in short - of your dreams. - Yeah, but what's she like? What's she really like? - [Denise] You mean, will you like her? I have to say, yeah. - Most undoubtedly, yes. - Come on guys. Give me specifics. - She goes to Armstrong, we know her from theater, she does a great Lady Macbeth, and she's just your type, Gordo. - Julia was my type, remember? - Not that type. What can I say? She's smart, she's cute, she's thin. That little bitch. She's perfect. - You're perfect, my petit kumquat. - Flattery will get you where you don't wanna be. - For you, I'll be willing to change. - [Gordon] There's something you're not telling me. - [Denise] Like what? - [Gordon] Like maybe she's... - [Sid] I know. Like maybe she's a vampire and she wants to suck your blood. - [Gordon] Funny, but even that would make more sense. I mean if she's so perfect, what's she doing going to another school's prom with some loser she's never met? Why didn't she have something better to do on Saturday night? - Good question. Ask her. - She's unattached? - For Pete's sake, Gord... don't let all your neuroses show at once. She has no obvious physical deformities. She's nice, you're nice. You'll have a good time. - So there's nothing to be afraid of? - Nothing. (energetic music) ♪ Did I tell you you're wonderful ♪ ♪ Did I tell you you're wonderful ♪ ♪ Did I tell you that it's all right ♪ ♪ Did I tell you you're wonderful ♪ ♪ It's all right ♪ - This is it. - Are you sure? - Smell the monotony. Taste the conformity. - This is it. 38C. Also happens to be my bra size. - Go get her, sailor. (car horn honking) (gentle music) - [Gordon] Violet? - Yeah. You must be Gordon. I've been trying to picture you from Nise's description, but all I kept seeing was the guy from Sesame Street. I don't know any other Gordon. - Oh. Here. (gentle music) - Ow. Just kidding. ♪ Think of all ♪ ♪ All of the times we shared ♪ Here. ♪ ♪ Just makes my heart ♪ - Survived the hard part. ♪ So warm inside ♪ - Now if I can just survive the rest of the evening. - Dramatic as always. - You can take the actress out of the theater, but you can't make her drink. - And of course Sid darling. - Charmed I'm sure. - All right let's go. Everybody ready? - Ready when you are. - Sailor. (bright music) - So no limo? - I thought everyone had limos or rented sports cars. I thought we'd be different. - I like it. Different is good. - See. - She's a 1964 Mercury Comet. A 239 straight six and a three on the tree. - Impressive. Why is the car automatically a she? I mean I've always wondered about stuff like that, you know. I mean why do they always call boats, and planes, and cars she's. - It's quite simple actually. - I think it has to do with some sort of male dominance thing. I mean I think that men dream of a woman that they can control. One that they can climb inside and poke around in and see what makes her go or fix up when she breaks down. You know? Do you think that's it? - One that they can turn off and on with a key. - One that they can use to get from point A to point B. - Until they run out of gas. Then they... - Look I have no idea. All I know is this car's a she. See, no stick. Are there any other pet peeves I need to know about? - Too many guys are jerks. Don't be a jerk. ♪ Quite so real ♪ ♪ As you do ♪ ♪ And I'll have to say ♪ ♪ It's up to you ♪ ♪ More than I can do ♪ ♪ Hide me too ♪ ♪ I'm thinking ♪ ♪ I wanna play ♪ - [Violet] Thank you, sir. - [Denise] Thank you, sir. - [Sid] Merci, monsieur. - [Gordon] Great. Week ago I didn't have a date. Now I've got three. - [Violet] What is this place, Indian? - Some Eastern Mediterranean diverse cultural experience. Denise's pick. - Do they serve food? - Very funny. Thought it sounded, you know, exotic. Man, this stuff is hot. Disaster relief. (bright music) - So, when do I get to hear the story? A friend calls me a week ago. Asks me to go to the prom with a complete stranger. I figure there's gotta be a story behind this. - Well, friend, would you rather tell this one? - My name is Denise. - She was your idea in the first place. - At least give the preface. - About two weeks ago I decided to blow off prom altogether mostly because my ex girlfriend Julia, who we fondly refer to as. - [All] The slut. - Julia the slut. Kind of rolls off the tongue like Smoky the Bear or Winnie the Pooh. Anyway, we'd been going out since I don't know how long. - Since just after your mother died. - A year. Anyway, I guess I just assumed we'd be going to the prom together. And now over to you, Connie. - It was a match made in high school. Boy thinks she's cute. Girl thinks he's deep. There are movies, school dances, marathon sessions of tonsil hockey at the football field. You think I didn't know? So of course when the prom rolls around, he simply assumes that they're going together. - Now note the root of the word assume is ass. - So a couple of weeks ago Gordon says to her, so what are you gonna wear? Where do you wanna eat? Do you wanna double or single? Julia says, I'm sorry Gord, but I'm already going with Rick. Some other guy from community college, which turns out she's been putting out for for a month or so. - [All] Slut. - Embroider a scarlet A. - So am I to assume she's gonna be at the prom tonight? - Julia? Probably. Of course, it's only an assumption. - So will I do? - Will you do what? - Whatever I'm here for. Will I do? Will I make Julia jealous? Will I prove Gordon's manhood? - Violet. - I don't have a problem with the situation. I just wanna know if I'll do. - I say you'll do just fine. - Whether you do... do, or not. - Like I said, he'll do. - That's all? - I've kind of resigned myself to the rebound. - Violet, bare with him okay? He's my best friend and I love him like a brother. - What about Sid? - I love him like a brother, too, but a different kind of brother. - He's cute enough. - Sid? - [Violet] No Gordon. - If I was 50 pounds skinnier, I'd have his babies myself. - Wouldn't that be like incest? - He shoots. He. - What do you think they do in there? - Who knows? Jordan fakes left. He shoots and he scores. Yes. Maybe they trade stock. - Or play video games. - A behind the back pass to Rodman. - C'est manifique. - Maybe they discuss quantum mechanics. - Who? - You know the guy that dyes his head. - Maybe they empty their bladders and move their bowels. - Ooh I hope not. They're supposed to be ladies. It's all a blur. Something slams through the basket, yes. - I'll put my money on the video games. - The referees are meeting to determine whether what went through the basket was a basketball or Rodman's orange head. (toilet flushing) - [Man] Can't anyone take a dump in peace anymore? - We had a couple of classes together and he's always really cool, you know. Some of the guys are afraid to be seen with me because I'm carrying a few extra pounds as we voluptuous ladies like to say. Maybe they think chub is catching. I don't know. - Crazy. - Shut up you stick. So after that, we went to almost every dance together. We danced with other people, but I'd always have the last dance with him. Then we'd go to his house, sit on his porch step, drink Doctor Pepper and burp like 12 year olds. - How romantic. - Well, our public awaits us. - Allons-y! - We're off to the prom. ♪ Up above ♪ ♪ Who am I ♪ ♪ Life can seem so ♪ ♪ Very high ♪ - Video games on prom night? - Only the dweebs get there early. ♪ Must devote ♪ ♪ Got off free ♪ ♪ Let's bother ♪ - Then I ride my motorcycle. I ride for nobody. I'm not just a man but I am a man among men. Oh sure you may try to stop me, but like magic I am more than any Humpty Dumpty. I don't need no king's horses except to eat them and with me there's no need for any other men for I am Mister Immortal Man! - [Man] Game over. - So what's a nice girl like you doing on a date like this? - Winning. - I mean what would possess you to go on a blind date at someone else's prom? - Lack of moral fiber? - Denise says your presently sans boyfriend. - I just move round and round with the guys at my school. I think I intimidated them. - No. - I just got so sick of playing the game, you know. I mean, John likes Mary so John asks Mary's friend Jennifer if Mary likes him or not. And of course Mary does but so does Jennifer. So Jennifer tells John that the very sight of him makes Mary want to throw up. And meanwhile asks Bill to ask John if he likes her. - It's all pointless because next year they all graduate. Mary goes off to UCLA. John joins the Army. Jennifer runs off to Zimbabwe with the Peace Corp. Bill ends up in community college impressing the high school girls with his flashy car. - Somewhere along the line you just get tired of playing games. People games. Sexual games. Dating games. ♪ Move over ♪ ♪ Life if it seems so ♪ ♪ Very hard ♪ ♪ Peaceful is all is where they shine ♪ ♪ Just some more ♪ ♪ Tell the truth I don't even remember ♪ ♪ Here we go ♪ - Hey, I think I know a shortcut. Are you guys sure you don't wanna boycott the prom? - Slow down. It's a school zone. - Oh great. Now why is this on when there's no school at night? I mean, don't you hate it when the stupid timers on these things are screwed up? - Man, Gord. - Shit, I think I killed a cat. - I don't think you actually killed it. - Oh God don't tell me. (cat shrieking) (soft music) - You gotta finish him off. He's in pain. - Yeah okay. - Or else we can scrape the thing up and take it to an animal shelter. - Oh my God. (cat shrieking) (soft music) - Guess it's too late to give it mouth to mouth. - Shut up. - Of course it had to be a black cat. - Shut up. - Okay I'm sorry. What now? - We should probably do something with it. I think there's a bag in the trunk. - No, no, leave it. Leave it. Leave it here. The city pays people to clean up road pizza. - Meanwhile some kid comes to school Monday morning and finds dead kitty cat here. No, I think we have to deal with this. - You gonna be okay, Gordon? - I don't know, my stomach doesn't feel so good. - Paper or plastic? - [Gordon] Just get the bag, okay? - [Denise] Use both. (gentle music) - [Sid] Oh, it feels like a sack of jello with bones. - [Violet] Now what? - [Gordon] Bury it I guess. - [Violet] Couldn't we just throw it in a dumpster or something? - [Gordon] No. - [Violet] Fine, it's your prom. - Look I was thinking. What if the cat belongs to somebody around here? - Well how much time do we have? - We could try a few houses real quick just in case we get lucky. Denise, we're gonna knock on a couple of doors. You wanna come with us? - I'll stay here. (doorbell ringing) - Hi, I feel kind of silly but we were... - If you're selling anything, I don't want any. - We're not. We just wanted to know if you had a cat. - I have a dog. If it's all the same to you. - It's not but it's okay. Sorry to bother you. - Yeah, what is it? - [Gordon] We were wondering if you had a cat. - Cat? No, I don't have a cat but my kid does. Damn nuisance too. - Could you maybe see if the cat is in? We ran over one across the street and we wanted to check if it was yours. - Yeah sure. Honey, can you see if that damn cat of yours is around here somewhere? - Here's my cat. Here's my Kiki. - No such luck. Say, you wouldn't like to take that one out and run over it too, would you? Damn nuisance that cat. - Thanks anyway but we really have to be going. - Suit yourself. - [Girl] What was that all about? - [Man] I don't know. Some kids looking for a cat. - [Violet] This is pointless, you know. That cat could be anybody's. - [Gordon] It was worth a try. - [Sid] So what now? Take an ad out? Its picture on milk cartons? Do you know this cat? - [Gordon] Let's just get to the dance and try to salvage what's left of the night. - [Violet] Whatever. Aren't you gonna close the trunk? (soft music) ♪ Too many promises were made ♪ ♪ Too many broken hearts became ♪ - Mom. ♪ Too many dreams fell to the grave ♪ ♪ Oh many ♪ ♪ Something happened yesterday ♪ ♪ Somebody took my heart away ♪ - Mom. ♪ Somebody's here with me this day ♪ ♪ Love me ♪ - [Gordon] Mom. Mom. - [Sid] Gordon. (soft music) Gordon. - What happened? - I don't know. You just rocked back and forth then you just collapsed. - Are you okay? - Yes. I guess I just zoned out for a minute. - Well you scared the crap out of me. - [Denise] You all right, Gordon? - I'm fine, I'm fine. Just get in the car and get out of here. - Are you sure you're okay? - Maybe I should drive. - No thank you. I'm just fine. ♪ And every moment's never gone ♪ - Maybe she should drive. - Look, I'm just perfect and I'm driving. ♪ Why go ♪ ♪ Why ♪ - Gordon, maybe we better just call it a night and head for home, huh? What do you think? - Denise, I've got a dead cat in the trunk. - Yes. Why don't we just leave it there until the morning? - It'll stink by then. ♪ Why go ♪ ♪ Why go ♪ - It's gotta be in here somewhere. Trashcans, tools, hardware, fasteners, locks. Shit. - Maybe we should ask someone. - There's not an employee in sight. Battery accessories. Paint, glue, plumbing, faucets. Where the hell do you keep all the shovels? - May I help you, sir? - Yes. - Yes, we're looking for your shovels. - They're in the garden department. - Well why didn't I think of that? - And the garden department would be this way? - No, it's that way. Just past the screen doors. - Thank you very much. - Thanks. (car horn honking) - They can't hear you. - I know but it makes me feel better. (car horn honking) - I have a headache. - Headache? Thy name is Gordon. What do you think they're doing in there? - Buying a shovel I would guess. I know this is something to do with his mother. - Please, won't you tell me about your mother? She beat you, no. Do you think he's gonna lose it? - I hope not. (bright music) What time is it? Great. ♪ Sitting here in limbo ♪ - Finally. ♪ And I know it won't be long ♪ ♪ Sitting here in limbo ♪ ♪ Like a bird without a song ♪ ♪ They keep putting up resistance ♪ ♪ But I know that my faith will lead me on ♪ - It's getting kind of late, Gord. - Look, I can just drop you off at the prom. Catch up with you later. All right? - I guess we can hold off for a little while, but I'm not digging in the dirt in this dress. ♪ Limbo ♪ ♪ Got some time to search my soul ♪ - There is this guy and he's going out with this blind date, you see, and he and his blind date are driving down a road and they hit this cat that's crossing the road. Then they stop and they get out of the car and the guy says gosh I didn't even see the cat crossing down the road. And the date says, neither did I. ♪ But I know what I've seen ♪ ♪ Tried my hand at love and friendship ♪ - 'Cause she's blind, you see. Visually impaired. ♪ 'This little boy is moving on ♪ ♪ Sitting here in limbo ♪ ♪ Waiting for the tide to flow ♪ - [Violet] So what now? - I just need one more thing. It'll just take a minute. ♪ Knowing that I have to go ♪ - Ask if they have any aspirin. - [Gordon] Great another cat. Wouldn't get too close to me if I were you. (cat growling) ♪ Would lead me on ♪ - We're closed. Can't you read the sign? (knocking on door) - We're closed. Go away. - I'm sorry to disturb you. We were driving by and we saw your light on. We're in desperate need of a shoebox. - [Man] A shoebox? - Please it's very important. - I have no cash in the store. - I'm not gonna rob you honest. I just need a shoebox. Look, I'll give you five bucks. - Follow me. (gentle music) Sometimes a customer wants to wear a pair of shoes out of the store, but they always take the box with them. I have a few empties. Take your pick. (gentle music) Here. - Can I have one just a little bit bigger? - A bigger box? - I'll give you 10 bucks. - I don't have too many bigger boxes. - 15. I'll give you $15 for an empty cardboard box. - [Man] Here. - Do you have any in white? - You don't want a shoebox. You want a sock box. - My mother's was white. - [Man] What was that? - Nothing. - Here. Take your money and leave. - Thanks. - Oh, do you have any aspirin? ♪ I'm sitting in limbo ♪ ♪ I'm sitting in limbo ♪ ♪ I'm sitting in limbo ♪ ♪ I'm sitting in limbo ♪ ♪ Oh oh limbo, limbo, limbo ♪ ♪ Limbo, limbo, limbo ♪ ♪ Limbo, limbo, limbo ♪ ♪ Limbo, limbo, limbo ♪ ♪ They keep putting up resistance ♪ ♪ But I know that my faith will lead me on ♪ - [Gordon] Come on. This way. - [Sid] It's not like we're gonna wake them up, is it? Yoohoo, sorry to disturb you but... - [Gordon] Cut it out. - [Denise] Yeah, this is supposed to be serious stuff. Look at this one. - James, Mary, Ethel, Helen, Alice. All died in 1993. - Five classmates. - Probably all high school buddies. - I've got a few good friends, but none I would want to be buried with. - What do you think? Maybe a car crash. - Probably a drunk driver. - Look over here. Listen to this one. Peterson Edward Burke. 1893 to 1981. Almost 90 years. - I hope I don't live 90 years. - His wife Helen was 89. - Ooh, this one must've died at birth. Baby Peterson 1924. Never had a chance. Never got to go to the prom. - Kind of like us. - Let's just take care of business and get out of here. - That looks like a good spot. How's the cat? - Heavy. I always thought cats were so light. - Hence the expression dead weight. - Kind of like your brain. Here we go. (screaming) - What are you doing? You dang kids. You're not gonna bury me. I'm still alive. Get out of here, creep. You kids. Get out of here. Who do you think you are? Who do you think you are anyway? - Can't we at least have our shovel back? - I'll give you your shovel back, you punk. I'll give you your shovel all right. I'll give it to you. - I tore my nylons. - [Sid] That was an adventure. He almost got us. - [Man] Get out of here. Get out of here. Who do you think you are? - He got the shovel. - Great. Now what do we do? - I think I have a shovel at home. - What was that? (tires screeching) - The cat. ♪ Know what I've seen ♪ ♪ I've tried my hand at love and friendship ♪ ♪ Now that's passed and gone ♪ - [Denise] Don't wanna forget the cat. ♪ This little boy is moving on ♪ ♪ Sitting here in limbo ♪ ♪ Waiting for the tides to roll ♪ ♪ Well I'm sitting here in limbo ♪ ♪ Got some time to search my soul ♪ - Don't worry about us. We'll be right here waiting. - And knock if you see this car rocking. ♪ That my faith will lead me on ♪ - Ouch. (knocking on door) - Dad, it's Gordon. You cold? - Yeah. - Dad, it's Gordon and Violet. That's all right. We're gonna go around back to mom's shed. We'll be back in a minute. ♪ Putting up resistance ♪ ♪ But I know that my faith will lead me on ♪ ♪ Yeah they keep putting up ♪ - We just mowed the lawn. Mom actually gardened. This is her shed. All right let's see what we got. ♪ On ♪ - Well this'll do us a lot of good. - Your mom, she passed away? - Yeah, about a year ago. - Can I ask how she died? - We had a dog. A dumb dog named Spanky. Loved to get out. One day he'd got into the middle of the street and my mom chased him. She was hit by a car. - My God. I'm sorry. - If that wasn't enough, two weeks later the dog runs away. - [Violet] No way. - Yeah well things happen. Shit. Well we tried. No one can say we didn't, right? What? - Nothing. - I guess I better introduce you to dad. - Goodie. - So what's so important in the shed? Dance can't be over this early, is it? - Yeah well we're kind of having an interesting night. We're just looking for a shovel. I'm gonna go wash up. - Did you find one? - Yeah but it was broken. - So, you must be... - Oh, oh I'm sorry. Violet, this is my dad. Dad, this is my date, Violet. - Oh, Violet. Nice to meet you. - Great introduction, Gordon. You moron. - Would you like to sit? - No, thank you. - So, this is your last year. Are you thinking about college? - Yeah. - Any subject matter that you're thinking about studying in particular? - Well, I hadn't decided on a subject until tonight, but after meeting Gordon I'm pretty sure on psychology. - Oh. Well. I guess. - I was just kidding. Actually I wanted to be a nurse, pre med. I'm sorry. That was a terrible joke. Gordon told me about your wife. I'm really sorry. - Don't worry. It's okay. It's kind of funny actually. Gordon's mom, Liz. She was so involved in his life. Excited, attentive. I think she spoiled him. And maybe I should've... - Dad, what are you boring Violet with now? Dumb stories when I was a cute little kid. Dad please. - Gordon, I gotta have a picture of you and Violet. - Smile for daddy. - Come on. ♪ Well I'm sitting here in limbo ♪ - One more. - Why not? - Wait a second. ♪ Knowing that I have to go ♪ ♪ Well they keep putting up resistance ♪ ♪ But I know that my faith will lead me on ♪ - Okay. ♪ I'm sitting in limbo ♪ ♪ I'm sitting in limbo ♪ ♪ I'm sitting in limbo ♪ ♪ I'm sitting in limbo ♪ ♪ Oh limbo, limbo, limbo ♪ ♪ Limbo, limbo, limbo ♪ - All right. That's it. I'm taking you all back to the prom. I'm gonna finish this once and for all. ♪ Putting up a resistance ♪ ♪ But I know that my faith will lead me on ♪ ♪ Well I can't say where life will lead me ♪ ♪ But I know where I've been ♪ ♪ I don't know what life will show me ♪ ♪ But I know what I've seen ♪ ♪ I've tried my hand at love and friendship ♪ ♪ But now that's come and gone ♪ ♪ This little boy is moving on ♪ - Hey you guys, Mister C's coming. Put that away. Put it away. Come on. (energetic music) - Aren't you coming with us, Violet? - I thought I was going with you. - I don't know what you wanna do. I asked you first. - [Gordon] Doesn't matter to me one way or the other, but the prom is waiting and so is the cat. - Weissler. You need to park that car. This is a fire lane. - [Gordon] Give us a minute please. We're trying to figure something out. - Well park it and figure it, will ya? Let's move it along. We don't need any students hanging around the street. - [Sid] Yes sir. Right away, sir. - Well thank you, Sidney. You're always so helpful. - Let's get this over with. - [Teacher] Now Weissler. - You can't smoke in there, Rick. This is a high school. Remember? - Yeah, yeah. Come on. - Gordon, you behave yourself now. - Yes mother. (energetic music) - What do you think you're looking at? - Nothing. - Huh punk. What are you looking at? - Rick please. - [Rick] You staring at my girlfriend? - Staring at somebody's girlfriend. - Gordon. - Gordon huh? Not the Gordon. Not mommy died and I'm all alone Gordon. - [Julia] Stop. - Miss your mommy little mama's boy. - I thought you were bringing some chick from Armstrong? What happened? She didn't stand you up, did she? - Come on Julia, give it a rest. It's prom night. - Her name is Violet. - I hope you guys have fun at the prom. Really. Everybody should have a good time at the prom. - Forget the punk, babe. Let's go. - Just a minute. Where'd you guys have dinner? - Some Eastern Mediterranean. - Come on. - Rick. - Come on, punk. I don't care what high school you go to. Right now, punk. - Look, I don't know who you are or where you came from but can it. (energetic music) Look Weissler. I don't know who this bozo is or what this is all about, but I know that you're a good kid. So why don't you be a good man and get in your car and drive around the block. Go. (energetic music) I don't wanna see you again until you've cooled off some. Okay? - Come back, little punk. Little high school mama's boy punk. - [Man] Can it now. - Go back to community college. - Gordon, go and do what you gotta do, but make sure you come back okay. We still have to take pictures and I get at least one dance with you. Big stud. Okay? Promise me. - [Gordon] I'll come back. - Make sure he comes back okay. - [Violet] Yeah, we'll come back. - Look, sorry for everything. The night, the date. Julia. Me making a fool of myself. Sorry you're not enjoying yourself. - Who says I'm not enjoying myself? - You are enjoying yourself? - Not especially but I never said I wasn't. - I don't know why I even bother. Denise kept giving me this whole speech about how it's the ultimate highlight of the whole high school experience and everything. I don't know. It's funny when you think about it 'cause nothing in high school really matters. The grades matter for college and all, but then we just take our grades and leave the rest behind. - So like you said why bother? - These are supposed to be the best years of our lives. I guess I bother because I wanna have some memories to look back fondly on. - That's pretty twisted. - If these are the best years of our lives, I hate to see what's up ahead. - You've already got your present in the past and you've already written off your future. What's the use? I have one rule in my life. Wherever you are, be there. It's pretty simple actually. Stop. - What? - Pull right up here. Up to the gate. - [Gordon] You wanna steal a shovel? - Borrow one. We can return it later. - We were gonna return the last one. - Just get it. ♪ May not have that much to give in material things ♪ ♪ But what I have I give to you so freely ♪ - [Gordon] Remember the cross streets. - [Violet] Heath and Lillard. - [Gordon] Now where? - [Violet] There's another cemetery around here somewhere. I remember driving by it. It's an older place. - [Gordon] Yeah, I know where it is. ♪ Let your light fill up this world 'til dawn ♪ ♪ Shine on ♪ ♪ Shine on ♪ ♪ Let your light fill up this world 'til dawn ♪ - Now this is a cemetery. Elizabeth Weissler. Beloved wife and mother. - I haven't been here in awhile. These plots were left to my parents years ago by one of my dad's weird uncles. They used to joke about it. Call it Uncle Stu's real estate. I guess my dad will be buried there eventually. (soft music) What's the matter? - I don't know. It's sad. - You'll mess up your makeup. - Do you miss her? - Sometimes. Times like tonight. Prom night. Holidays especially. She always used to pass out the candy. - How do you deal with that? - I don't. That's the trick. You mostly try to block it out. Get through the bad days. You know it's funny. I never really cried. - I don't think that's very funny. - Well I didn't mean funny like funny. I meant you know. It's funny. - I think it's sad that a mother dies and her son doesn't cry. - There's no rule that says you have to cry. - There should be. - You're as bad as Denise. - What are you doing? - I'm trying to make you cry. - Cut it out. - You've got to try, Gordon. - This is not your problem, Violet. It's ridiculous. Everybody thinks they know how I'm supposed to react to this. Trust me. I've been through this. I was there. I saw my mother get killed. I sat there and kept the dumb dog away while her body got cold. I spoke at her memorial service. I helped carry her coffin. I even got drunk a couple times and got grounded for it. I've done enough. I don't have to cry. - You ought to. It's part of the natural process. - Have you ever had someone you love die on you? Have you? - No. - Well I'm sorry to hear that. I'd like to know how everybody becomes such an expert on grieving. (gentle music) Okay, I'll try. (gentle music) Ugh. - Gordon. (gentle music) One. - What are you doing? - [Violet] A little experiment. You wanna join me? - It looks like you're walking backwards around my mom's grave. - Two. I am walking backwards around your mom's grave. - [Gordon] Why? - [Violet] Are you superstitious? - No. Are you? - [Violet] Sometimes I guess. Like not seeing the name of that Scottish play in theaters. That sort of thing. Three. - [Gordon] What Scottish play? - Macbeth. It's only bad luck in theaters so. It's also bad luck to say good luck. That's why we say break a leg. Four. - That still doesn't explain... - My dad bought me the mysteries of the unexplained series when I was in junior high. You know the ones from Time Life? Anyway in one of the books it said that if you walk backwards around a grave 13 times, the person inside is supposed to come back to life. Five. - [Gordon] Well cut it out. My mother's grave. - [Violet] Uncomfortable? - No. I'm just not sure I like the idea of you walking around her like this. - Afraid she'll wake up? - Violet please. - Six. - [Gordon] It's getting late. We need to bury the cat and get back to the prom. - This won't take long. I'm almost halfway there. Seven. - [Gordon] Stop now? - I am stopped. - [Gordon] Good. Let's go. - Okay. - All right I get it. First I was sad but I couldn't cry. Boohoo. Now you're trying to get me angry thinking maybe I'll cry then right, but I'm telling you it's not gonna work. I tried getting angry. I got angry but I still didn't cry. - Eight. - Fine. You finish your 13. See if anything happens. I'll be waiting in the car. - That's nine. - I don't care. ♪ Tell the truth I don't even ♪ ♪ Remember right now ♪ ♪ Here we go ♪ - 10. ♪ So what you gonna do ♪ ♪ Gotta let go ♪ ♪ Gotta let go ♪ - 11. ♪ Gotta hang out ♪ ♪ Gotta hang out ♪ - [Violet] 12. ♪ So what you got oh ♪ ♪ Gotta let go ♪ ♪ Gotta let go ♪ ♪ We gotta let go ♪ - [Gordon] All right. You've gone far enough. - I'm sorry, Gordon. - I told you it wasn't gonna work, but you just had to try didn't you? You're just like Denise. - In what way? - You care. ♪ Inside your mind ♪ ♪ I guess we're always living ♪ ♪ On borrowed time ♪ ♪ Yes I will be here ♪ ♪ To hold your hand ♪ ♪ Just close your eyes and see ♪ ♪ I understand ♪ ♪ You're flying with angels ♪ ♪ Above us all and I'll be here ♪ ♪ To catch you if you fall ♪ - [Violet] Careful. You don't wanna break the borrowed shovel. ♪ If others leave you ♪ - You know, I kind of like the long handled model better. More leverage. - What time does the prom end? - Oh I don't know. One, 1:30. Oh no. Somehow I get the feeling somebody doesn't want this cat buried. - Sure looks that way. - What's going on here? - We just hit a cat with our car and we thought we should bury it. - Don't you know it's against city code to dig holes in a public park like this without a permit? Where'd you hit the cat? - [Gordon] Couple of miles from here. This looked like a good spot. - Any ID? - [Gordon] Yeah. - No, no, no. I meant on the cat. - No, no, none. - We checked. - No collar or anything. - Where'd you get the box? - Soccer store. - And the shovel? - We borrowed it because we kind of wanted to bury it ourselves. You know, part of the natural grieving process. - You're really not supposed to just dig holes in a public park like this, but since you got the hole mostly dug, I don't see any difference if you fill it in with the cat inside or without. - You won't even be able to tell in the morning. - Make sure. By the way, what's with the fancy clothes? - We're on our way to the prom. We're just a little late. - Don't drink and drive. - I've had interesting dates, but I've gotta tell you... - Hi, my name's Gordon Weissler. I don't believe we've met. Here we go. - You know I kind of feel like we should say something. - It's your call. I'm not real religious. - How 'bout Shakespeare? From you I have been absent in the spring when proud-pied April dressed in all his trim. Hath put a spirit of youth in everything. Nor did I wonder at the lily's white nor praise the deep vermilion of the rose. They were but sweet, but figures of delight. Drawn after you, the pattern of all those. Yet seemed it winter still, and, you away and with your shadows I with these did play. - Pretty whatever it means. - He's saying that even though it's spring with flowers and stuff, it seems like winter because his love is away. It's about the gap left when someone you love isn't around. (cat meowing) - Look. He's paying his respects. ♪ So sleep my darling ♪ ♪ One kiss goodnight ♪ ♪ One kiss goodnight ♪ - Your friend is gone. ♪ Another song awaits you ♪ ♪ With rising eyes ♪ ♪ You're flying with angels ♪ ♪ Above us all ♪ ♪ And I'll be here to catch you if you fall ♪ - I feel like an idiot. - [Violet] I don't know why. You shouldn't. - I do. (cat meowing) ♪ And I'll be here to catch you if you fall ♪ ♪ Oh I'll be here ♪ - [Violet] So, finally gonna take me to your prom, huh? - We thought you had eloped. - [Violet] Not quite. - Did you take your pictures yet? - [Gordon] We just got here. - No, come on. Don't tell me you packed everything already? - We've been done about half an hour. - [Gordon] Really, Denise, it's no big deal. - No big deal? You can't go to the prom without any proof. You look so cute. She looks so cute. Can't you take just one more? - I'm past contract time as it is. - No. - Of course. - Wait. Of course what? Of course what? - I was gonna say of course I can use my contingency camera. I always carry it along just in case. - No flowers? - [Violet] We lost them. - No nylon? - [Violet] Denise. ♪ With laughter real time ♪ ♪ Run to your arms ♪ ♪ Baby I love to be ♪ ♪ And it's forever ♪ ♪ Together we'll always be ♪ ♪ Did I tell you you're wonderful ♪ ♪ Did I tell you you're beautiful ♪ ♪ Did I tell you that it's all right ♪ ♪ Did I tell you that it's all right ♪ ♪ Did I tell you you're wonderful ♪ ♪ Did I tell you you're beautiful ♪ ♪ Did I tell you that it's all right ♪ ♪ Did I tell you that it's all right ♪ - So are you sorry we finally made it? - No, I like dancing. - No I mean, the dead cat wasn't much competition. - I'm not here to compete. - Oh you don't have to. I mean there's no competition. - We'll see. ♪ It's all right ♪ ♪ Did I tell you you're wonderful ♪ - Ladies need to use the powder room. - Do they? Of course we do. - Hope you get a high score. - What? - Nothing. Don't forget to put the seat up. - [Rick] How much longer? - Not long. Half an hour or so. - I'm gonna go do that cancer thing. You coming along? - No, I'll stay here. You go smoke. ♪ Can I tell you you're wonderful ♪ - Did you kiss him? - Why don't you ask him since you're such good friends? Brother and sister and all. - He's gonna tell me either way. I just want independent verification so I can compare the two defendants testimonies. ♪ It's all right ♪ - Hi. - Hi. - I'm Julia. - So I gathered. - And you are? - My name is Violet. - Everybody said Gord was bringing some mystery babe from Armstrong. - Yeah, that's me. - So, did he weird out on you tonight? - Weird out? - You know, off in Goobersville. He's kind of a strange guy. - I didn't think he was particularly strange. - Do you mind? Yeah, well have long have you known him? - I don't think that's any of your business. - My god I was just trying to be friendly. - No, you weren't. You were trying to pump me for information. I don't go to your school, you've never seen me before, and you're dying to know what's going on between your ex boyfriend and I. I however have no social debt or emotional investment in you, so I'm not gonna give you the satisfaction. - Can't believe you. - Believe it, babe. - Now I expect cold crusties from Denise over there. So sure you would act like this. You wouldn't even be here if I hadn't dumped that weirdo. Can't believe Gordon would go out with such a bitch. - Neither can I. ♪ And everyone can live ♪ ♪ Everyone is tempted not to give in ♪ ♪ Everyone's affected by the rules in our space ♪ - Like I said, it's been an interesting night. - I guess so. - So did you get your money's worth? - Trying not to think about it. - Let's see. 50 bucks for the ticket. 50 for the dinner. Was it 100 for the tux? - About. - Some for the gas. Flowers. - The shovel. - Shovel. Well it's not standard prom equipment. However, altogether $250 for one hour of pure bliss. Oh here comes you know who. Exit stage right. - Hi. - Hello Julia. - Having a good time? - I guess. Where's what's his name? - Oh I don't know. Out having a smoke. I met your friend in the restroom. She seems real nice. - She is. - How 'bout a dance since your date isn't here and mine isn't either? For old times sake? - I don't think so. Not tonight. - Oh here we are. With Gordon. Shit I can't leave you alone for a minute, can I? - We're just talking. - Why don't we just go outside right now? Come on let's finish what you started, little chicken shit punk. - No thank you. - No thank you. That's great. Little high school mama's boy punk tells me no thank you. Sounds like chicken shit to me. - Whatever you say. You're the college boy. Hello Sid. - What's that supposed to mean? - Which word didn't you understand? - Rick or is that Richard? Dick. - Get away from me, faggot. All right let's go outside right now. - We go outside, we fight. That's given. Now if you want to fight me just to prove your manhood, be a whole lot easier if we just went into the bathroom and dropped out pants. You show me yours, I show you mine. Issue resolved. You wanna fight me to prove you're the better man for Julia, forget it. You two are perfect for each other. You only fight for things that matter. You've got her now. Keep her. Now if you can't figure out what to do with her. - Excuse me. - What? - I'm gonna have to ask you to leave. - Like hell you will. - I'm not finished with Gordon here. - Young man, I would ask you to look at the back of your ticket. It states explicitly there in the rules and regulations that the administration can ask anybody to leave at any time. I happened to have written the rule myself. - Fine. We were just about to leave anyway. Weren't we, Julia? - Kind of hate to send her away with him, but she's made her bed. Now she can lie in it. - You can interpret that however you want. You know that's a pretty sneaky rule. You can throw us out whenever you please. - Rule? What rule? Tiny details, gentlemen. Enjoy yourselves. - [Denise] What was that all about? - Oh guy stuff. Proving our manhood. That sort of thing. - Dance with me, Gordo. - Yes ma'am. - Dance with me, Denise. ♪ Like a refu... like a refugee ♪ - Rick. You've been kicked out once already. Let's just go. ♪ This heart you swore off ♪ ♪ Your heart's so hollow ♪ ♪ This heart you swore off ♪ - That's the last time you drag me to one of these high school things. - You didn't have to come if you didn't want to. - That's all right. We have a nice room. You can make it up to me. - A room? - Yeah. At the Palm Villas, $200. Hot tub, the works. - Let's just skip it. I'm really tired. - This is your prom. It's supposed to be a night for excitement. I know mine was. - Really? Rick, I'll take a rain check. - I made a real effort here tonight. Suffered through and all. Now it's time for you to make an effort. Come on, babe. Do it for me. - Bite me. Dick. - High school kids. - May we cut in? (energetic music) ♪ Why do you ♪ ♪ Lie and lie ♪ ♪ Don't put on yourself ♪ - Can you call me a cab? - Gladly. ♪ I know what ♪ ♪ You been lying ♪ - So would you do it again? - What? - Go on a blind date to someone else's prom. - No. - Why not? - Fishing for a compliment? - Maybe. - Then forget it. (soft music) ♪ When I think of all ♪ ♪ All of the times we've shared ♪ ♪ Just take your time ♪ - If it's all right with you, I was thinking can we borrow your stolen shovel? - Ash Park, right? - That's right. - You be good now. Both of you. Don't do anything I wouldn't do. - And don't do anything I would. ♪ Through the thick and thin ♪ - Funny the way things turn out sometimes. - Yeah, a real black cat affair. - Yeah. I mean no, it's just when Denise called me, I figured what the hell. I mean she's fun and Sid's fun. And even if you turned out to be a complete moron, it wouldn't be a waste of time. - Now that I did turn out to be a complete moron? - Total waste of time. - Sorry to disappoint you. - You know, you never did tell me your last name. - [Violet] Information is given on a need to know basis. - [Gordon] What if I needed to look you up in the phone book? - Life is like a rose bush. For it looks like death before and after the bloom. Yet it's always alive. - What Sid is really trying to say little blackness is that we're sorry you're gone and may your spirit live on. ♪ No one else can make me feel ♪ - Hey. ♪ Like the way I feel when I'm with you ♪ - (burps) How's that one? - It's good. You're getting better. You know the first time I kissed a girl I was a sophomore. We were at a school dance. A Brenda something. Anyway, we'd been a dancing a lot and she said she was thirsty. So I brought her an orange soda. Then I kissed her and it tasted like orange soda. Still don't like orange soda. But I love Doctor Pepper. ♪ All of my love to you ♪ - The sun will be coming up soon (burps). It felt bigger coming up. - They sometimes trick you like that (burps). - [Violet] How do you do that? - Years of practice. You'll learn. Of course you'll never be as good as Denise. She told me about your little run in with Julia. - The slut. - To all the makings of a memorable prom night. - You know, tonight was more like the stuff movies are made of. Blind dates. - A dead cat. - A gay guy named Sid. - A fight where good outwits evil. - And a young man finally grieves. - What could possibly be left? ♪ Wait 'til the dawn ♪ ♪ You may walk through the clouds ♪ ♪ But to carry on ♪ ♪ You've got to follow the sun ♪ - Cut the tonsil hockey. - Thy coach has a surprise cruise to the valley of thy sun. - And this prom is not over until the voluptuous lady sings. ♪ But there's always a reason to keep on believing ♪ ♪ 'Cause everyone is not the same ♪ ♪ No ♪ ♪ If you been lost and you wanna be free ♪ ♪ And you feel like the world is tearing up at the seams ♪ ♪ Remember there's light if you wait 'til the dawn ♪ ♪ You may walk through the clouds ♪ ♪ But to carry on you've got to follow the sun ♪ ♪ There's a little good in everyone ♪ ♪ Sometimes it takes a little work to see the sun ♪ ♪ If you try you may find your life has just begun ♪ ♪ Don't you run ♪ ♪ Don't you run ♪ ♪ When you're feeling lost and you wanna be free ♪ ♪ And you feel like your world is tearing up at the seams ♪ ♪ Remember there's light if you wait 'til the dawn ♪ ♪ You may walk through the clouds ♪ ♪ But to carry on you've got to follow the sun ♪ ♪ And you wanna be free ♪ ♪ And you feel like your world is tearing up at the seams ♪ ♪ Remember there's life if you wait 'til the dawn ♪ ♪ You may walk through the clouds ♪ ♪ But to carry on you've got to follow the sun ♪ ♪ Ah ♪



