A BREED APART (1984) - FULL TRANSCRIPT

foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- (uneasy music) - Hewey, where are you boys going at this hour with all that booze? - [Hewey] Huntin'. - Don't you work anymore, Charlie Payton? - His wife's give 'im a few days off. - Ah hell! - That ol' Stella can really pack a pair of Levis, can't she? - I like it. Hey Stella, just put it on my tab! - I swear I think those boys were behind the door when brains were passed out. Come on. You got time to help me before school. You ready? (singing wordlessly) Long one! (singing wordlessly) - Yeah! - And he makes it! Under the leg! Alright, boy are we good. (bus honking) - Mom, the bus! The bus, it's the bus! Okay, goodbye! - Now don't be home too late. - Okay. - Alright, have a good day. (peaceful music) (birds squawking faintly) - I worry about you. (birds squawking) Okay, let me explain this to you so you understand. Oil is a stain on top of the surface, so just don't sit in that. And tell your friends. (birds squawking) Yep, I know, I know, I know. - [Charlie] Keep your eyeballs peeled for that wild man, Hewey. He caught a fella shootin' out here and damn neared drowned him. - [Hewey] Charlie, I ain't scared of no army-type psycho. That's why he's crazy, you know. Pulled a pin on a grenade and forgot to throw it! - [Charlie] You wanna drown this cowboy he better bring his lunch. - [Hewey] Oh, for sure, Charlie. (sinister music) (guns booming) (guns booming) (guns booming) (guns booming faintly) (faint shouting) (guns booming) - Hey, good going, Charlie! - Thanks, Hewey. - Come on. That's alright. - This water's wet. - Look it there, Charlie. (gun booming) (whooping) (gun booming) - Hewey, I wonder where the damn duck warrior is, I'd like to get a shot at him. Well Hewey, is he dead? - Yeah, I think so. (laughing) (guns booming) (guns booming faintly) - [Charlie] Damn fine shot there, cuz! (laughing) (faint speaking) (gun booming) (faint speaking) (guns booming) (guns booming) (faint speaking) - (laughing) Yeah, we're havin' fun now! (bolt hissing) (screaming) (grunting) (bolt hissing) - Come on, Charlie, let's get the hell outta here! Come on. (grunting) Come on, Charlie, we gotta get us to our boat. (horse hooves thudding) Come on, Charlie, you can make it boy. (grunting) (horse hooves thudding) (grunting) - Don't come back. Don't come back here. (horse snorting) (horse hooves thudding) (uneasy music) (flies buzzing) (dramatic music) - Help me get that engine started. Go! (boat engine rumbling) - Start, goddamn it! (faint speaking) Come on, goddamn it! (rifle booming) - [Hewey] He shot it! (faint shouting) Gotta get the gas. (faint shouting) Put some water on it, you dumb shit! - You got the front? - Yep. - Grab her. - Okay. - Whoa. - Got it. - Yep. - Did you find Charlie and Hewey? - No. You finish checking those boats? - Why do I have do all the work? Why don't you do it? - Just do it, Adam, less talk. - They go near Cherokee Island? You know how Jim feels about hunters. - They're old enough to take care of themselves. - Are ya gonna charge 'em extra if they're not back by tonight? - You bet. (bird whistling) (birds chirping) - You alright, Charlie? - I'm gonna kill that son of a bitch. - Don't worry, we're gonna take care of that rubberneck. (uneasy music) (flies buzzing) (fire crackling) (helicopter blades whirring) (machine guns chattering) (group applauding) - This is Dustin Lecate for the Six o'clock News. I'm here with Michael Walker, and adventurous guy, that likes to do some unusual and daring things. First, let me ask you why are you here to give classes in mountaineering? - Helps to promote the sport, but more importantly, I got you up here to publicize my trip to China, didn't I? - Yes, you did. Okay, I'm here, why don't you tell me about it? - Not long ago the government in China opened up the interior of the country to foreigners. There's a mountain range over there that as far as we know has never been climbed. - And you're one of the best climbers in the world so you wanna take a shot at it, right? - No, I don't wanna take a shot at it, I wanna do it. I wanna plant the American flag on the highest peak in China. I mean, who the he" wouldn't? - I also understand you're having some problems. Do you wanna tell me about that? - We're having some trouble getting the money. This trip I figure will cost $150,000 minimum, but it's been a little tough. But I'll get the money. I mean, I'd really like to see America get there first, wouldn't you? There's no glory in coming in second. - What about you? What's your personal motivation in all this? - A paycheck. - Why, you short of money? - Always short of money. (uneasy music) - The nest can only be reached from the base. As you see the face is vertical and almost sheer. Those pictures were taken a month ago, the eggs should all be laid by now. You have three weeks to obtain one before they're hatched. Can you climb it? - Yeah. - Will you for $150,000? - Now let me get this straight. You're willing to pay $150,000 for a bird's egg. - For this species, yes. - (laughing) You are crazy. - I'm also what you might call well fixed up. - (laughing) Yeah. Listen, what's so important about this egg, for Christ sake? - Come with me. You are looking at the most comprehensive bird's egg collection in the world. - No shit. - What you see is the result of a lifetime's obsession. - Well when I was a kid it was baseball cards. - Sir, let me explain something to you. I am a collector. A collector is a person seized by an obsession, be it paintings, rare books, postage stamps, or these. He will not rest until his collection is complete. Just as you, sir, will not be content until you have scaled those mountains in China. I understand your compulsion even less than you understand mine. Climbing has always seemed to me to be an occupation of mind-boggling banality. But as the saying goes, I will defend to the death your right to do it. - Well this collection certainly seems complete enough to me. - It was until this rare breed appeared. A bird half as large again as the normal species we call Haliaeetus eucocephalus, the bald eagle to you. One egg from that creature will seem to me like those distant peaks you're thinking of. I want it, and I must have it. I shall have it. - How many eggs do you want? - All of them. I should, in all fairness, remind you that egg collecting is illegal. - And by taking these eggs this rare breed will become extinct. - Yes. Does that so bother you, sir. - It bothers me. But I could live with it for $200,000. (laughing) - Right! Well there is, however, one other problem. (ducks quacking faintly) - Hi, Sam. - Hi. - Hi. - How ya doin'? - Fine. - [Stella] Good. - How are you? - Oh, I'm fine. - Adam? - [Stella] He's at school. - Oh, you're out of three inch nails. - Oh, yeah, I know, but I should get some any day now. - Tomorrow maybe? - Oh, I can't promise tomorrow, but maybe. - What's wrong with your eye? - Oh, it's, uh-- - Why don't you let me take a look at that. - No, that's okay. - Come on, just let me look at it. What in God's name is this? - That's tea bags and coffee, herbs. Should heal it. - Ridiculous. Let me take a look here. Come here. Now hold real still. - It's a piece of fly. - It's a piece of wood. I'll throw these away. You need someone to look after you. - You smell good. I got you some eggs and goat cheese. - Thank you. - Thank you. - I'll see ya. Sam? - [Sam] Yeah? - You like goat cheese? - I sure do. - Help yourself. (laughing) - [Stella] And there was nothin' in his eye. (peaceful music) (tuba music) (rifle lever clicking) - Somethin' troublin' ya, Stella? - Oh, it's just Malden. He always comes in today for his groceries. Can't think where he is. - I don't see what you see in him. He's a funny feller. - Sam, you gonna buy that rifle or not? - It's a nice weapon, too steep a price, though. - I can throw in a box of shells, that's about it. You know, my grandmother used to have a saying for most things. I think she'd be tellin' you to piss or get off the pot. - Hey. - Oops. I don't know, Stella, I'll think about it, okay? - Alright Sam, you think about it. - Hi mom. - Oh hi, where you been? - School bus was late. - Oh good, I need you to run an errand for me. - I can't, I gotta go to Steve's, it's real important! - No, now! - I'll do it later. - Adam, I want you back here right now! - See ya! Come on, Steve, let's go. - Well? - Well I'm fine, how are you? - Can I do something for you? - Yeah, I'd like a boat. - Alright. Why don't you step outside, I'll show you what I have. Will that one do? - It's fine. - Fill this in. $50 deposit, $20 a day, you pay the gas. - Where's Cherokee Island? - It's about mile that way. You don't wanna go there. - Yeah I do - Cherokee Island is private property. The owner doesn't like visitors. - Well I can always ask his permission, can't I? - It's your funeral. - Listen, where does a man find a decent meal around here and maybe some friendly company. - There's the Flying Duck Inn up the road. Has good food. - And the company? - That's your problem. - I know, but I'm workin' on it. - $50 deposit, $20 a day, and you pay for the gas. - (laughing) You know, you shouldn't let your boy get to ya. - Oh, Dr. Spock? Well what would you do? - I'd relax. - Would you? - [Mike] Uh-huh. - How would I do that? - Well you could start by having dinner with me tonight. Who knows, I might even get you to laugh. (laughing) - Damn it. There is, ah, to everything there is a season and a time to every purpose. A time to kill, a time to heal. A time to break down, a time to build up. A time to love, a time to hate. A time for war, a time for peace. Slim, you had your food today, come back here. (parrot squawking) Slim! Shut up! Eat your... Slim, come back here. (parrot hissing) - This guy, um, who owns the island, uh... - Jim Malden? - Yeah. Why is he so antisocial anyway? - He just likes his privacy. - Is that why he's not allowing any visitors these days? - No, he's got a pair of nesting eagles out there. I think he wants to protect them till the eggs hatch. - Ah. Excuse me. - Woo. (slow country music) - Let's dance. - Are you crazy? - Yeah, but I still wanna dance with ya. - (laughing) Here? - Yeah, here, come on! - No, I can't. - You'll start a new fashion, come on. - I do not dance well. Are you married? - Not recently. - Oh. Free as a bird, huh? - Yeah, just like you. With one big difference, you got a family and a son. - Are you having a nesting impulse? - Well yeah, I always wanted to settle down and have some kids. But I just never met the right woman, I guess. You know someone, well like you for instance. - My grandmother used to have a saying for just about everything. I think she'd tell you that you're full of shit! (laughing) I feel ridiculous. - I feel nice. - Well this is it. - Well this is nice. - I can't get the door open. - Let me help you. - Oh yeah, that's what men are for, isn't it? - Yeah, we do manly things in manly ways. (moaning softly) - Oh my God. I think maybe the pace here is a little slower here than what you're used to. - Okay, I just didn't want you to think that I didn't find you attractive, sexually. - Where are you gonna sleep tonight? - I dunno, my car I guess. - Oh come on, you can't sleep in your car. - Your move. - Here you go. - Well thanks a lot. - No, thank you. I had a wonderful evening. - So did I. - And you did make me laugh. - Well tomorrow I'll give you my bird impressions, how's that? - Good night. (laughing) Michael. (cuckoo clock cooing) Good night. (uneasy music) (pistol hammer clicking) - Wake up or I'll blow your head off! Who the heck are you? - Uh, my name is Mike, what's yours? - Adam (laughing). - Good morning. - Good morning. - How'd you sleep? — Oh terrific. - I think you're in trouble. Come on, I need your help in the store today. - Aw. - Great kid. - Want some coffee? - Yeah. - Why didn't Jim come yesterday. - I don't know. - But he always comes on Friday though. - I guess he was busy yesterday. - Okay. - Here you go. - Thanks. Jim? - Jim Malden, he usually buys his groceries from us. - Seems to have made a big hit with the kid. - Adam thinks he's god. - (chuckling) The way he looked at me, he must think I'm the devil. - Nah, he's just not used to having men around the place. - Oh? You mean Jim doesn't get to use the couch? - No, he's organized. - Oh. - Adam, come on, we gotta go! - [Adam] Aw Mom, I'm tying my shoe! - It's time! Come on. - Watch it, pal (imitating gun booming). (boat engine rumbling) Hey Jim! How's Cherokee Island? - Cherokee Island is fine. - How are the animals? - They're good. - It take you a long time to get here? - Yeah. Take that and you grab me a new paddle. - How'd you do this? - I won't tell ya. - Hey, hey, that was an uncool move! - Looks like you're just about out of everything. Ammo, matches, paper. You wanna wait while I fill this? - Yeah, sure. - Jim, Jim, my friend Steve and me, we made this camp outta leaves and branches, just like you told me! - Adam, we need some firewood. - Will you come and look at it and tell us what you think? - Did you hear what I said? - Aw Mom, this is his only chance to see it. - Where is it? - It's back in the woods. - Okay, tell ya what we do. Why don't we go and see it and maybe pick up some wood? - Okay, it's a deal. - You'll need the truck. - Come on! - I was worried about you yesterday when you didn't show up. - Why? - No reason. - Thanks anyway. The saw is fine, the paddle is too small. - Jim, come on! Come on! - Okay? - Wow. - Just don't tell Stella, okay? - Yeah. (uneasy music) (chainsaw buzzing) Jim! Jim! Jim! Someone shot it. - He's in shock. I need your knife. Okay. Get the knife out and the (mumbling). Careful. - Here you go. - Here. - What is this? - It's moonshine. - What should I do? - Tell him a story. - Okay, let's see. Got it, great. There was once this deer warrior. And he and the deers were having this fight with the antelopes, a great war. A long long time ago, before you were born. And one day during a really really big battle a hunter came and shot lots of them. And the warrior said, if I see those hunters again I'll be very mad at them and I'll gore them with my antlers. When I gore them I'll get the antelopes to help us, because the antelopes were shot too. The next day they found the hunters. All the antelopes and the deers got together and they beat the hunters. And so always remember that the antelopes are your friends and the hunters aren't. (soft music) - He's gonna be fine. Laced up like a shoe. Now weren't ya gonna show me something else? - The lean to! - Okay, where do we go? - Let's go! - Okay, you want the apple or the beer? - The beer. Jim? - What? - When can I come to the island? - Soon. - You always say that! When soon? - Soon, soon. Keep a secret? - Yeah. - I'm building a guest room for you and Stella. - Wow, when is it finished? - When's your birthday? - You know when it is. - Yeah. - Is that a good day? - Yeah. - You really mean it? - Yeah. (beer can tab clicking) If you're gonna drink that beer, you can't drive. - Yeah, I guess that'd be drunk driving. - Well hi there! - Hi mom! Guess what? - What? - Jim and I, we found this deer, it was hurt! I helped him fix it. He sewed it up with a shoelace, it was fantastic! And then guess what I did on the way home? - What? - I got to-- (Jim clearing throat) - Um, forget it. - Hmm. Why don't you go get the rest of the wood. - Alright, do I have to? (ducks quacking faintly) (uneasy music) - What did he do the rest of the way home? - Heh, I let him drive the truck. - You let him drive the truck? Are you outta your mind? - Stella. Looky here, Charlie. OI' lizard dick ain't got no weapons this time. No rifle, no crossbow. Hell, he ain't even got no chain. - Oh shit. - Real stupid for an asshole like you to be caught without protection. - Hewey, Charlie, I don't want any trouble in my store. - Sorry, Stella, this has got to be done! - I want you outta here now! Charlie Payton, you! Charlie Payton! (door rattling) - You son of a bitch, we nearly died out there! - Let me in in there! Hewey! Charlie! - Now you're gonna get your time! (yelling wordlessly) (dramatic music) (thumping and grunting) - God dammit, stop it! (grunting) (screaming) (grunting) - I'll get the son of a bitch! (paint cans crashing) - Hey quick, Michael! They're killin' him! - Grab him! (grunting) (grunting and thumping) (glass shattering) (gasping) (pistol booming) (fists thumping) (grunting) (shouting wordlessly) (shelf crashing) (shouting wordlessly) (shotgun thumping) (heavy breathing) (helicopter blades whirring) - No, no! - Don't Jim, don't! He saved your life! - Jim! - Who are you? - The man who just kept you from gettin' your head blown off. - He stayed overnight at our house last night. (helicopter blades whirring) (machine gun chattering) - Mind your own business. - Well don't thank me. I can't stand gratitude. - I'll pay for the damage, okay? - But why? They did start it, not you! Jim? - Listen, I'm sorry if I spoiled anything between you two. - There's nothin' to spoil. Jesus Christ, what a mess. - I just love little towns, don't you? - This is one of the hunters that went out to the island last week. You still wanna go? - I sure do. (uneasy music) (birds chirping) (eagle chirping) (camera clicking) (eagle crying) (camera clicking) (eagle crying) - Well well, good mornin'. - How did you get here? - Stella brought me over last night. - I don't think so. - Well why don't you ask her the next time you see her? - This island is private. - Look, I don't have any guns, I don't have any traps. All I brought was this. You mind? (camera clicking) - No. What's that? - Oh, I check the water for pollution. If it's bad I report it. Yours is alright, though. - What are you looking for? - Birds. Orioles, red-tailed hawks, left-footed wankers. - Keep away from the mountains. - You're the boss. - There some Carolina Creek out there. - Oh yeah? I thought Carolina Creek stayed up north until May? - You like fish? - Yeah. Thanks. Listen, what the hell is that smell? - Oh, it's me. It should keep the bugs away, but it doesn't always work. (laughing) - Okay. (peaceful music) (thunder rumbling) (camera clicking) (horse nickering) (birds chirping) (uneasy music) (camera clicking) Well well, you are very predictable. - Walker. - You picked a hell of a night to go jogging. - How are you doing? - Cold. - How long do you think this experiment will last? - I don't know, depends on how long you wanna let me stay. - You can stay another day, stay at my house. - Okay. You make that? - Yeah. - Haliaeetus leucocephalus. - What? - Bald eagle to you. - [Jim] Oh, yeah. - Terrific bird. - Yeah. I have two of 'em here. - I heard something about that, kind of a new breed or somethin'? It was on TV. - The eagle is almost extinct. People can't wait to wipe them out. If they wanna wipe out each other, it's fine with me. (uneasy music) (eagle crying) - What is this stuff we're drinking now, anyway? - It's homemade. I drink it on special occasions. Four years ago, exactly today, I lost my wife and son. - I'm sorry. Well we were talkin' the other night. - Huh, who? - Me and Stella. - Oh, when you stayed over, you mean? - Yeah (laughing). - You had a good time? - Yeah. That's one hell of a sexy lady, know what I mean? - (laughing) Yeah, I know what you mean. - By the way, my name is Mike. - Well... (laughing) - I think your friend is in real bad shape here, bear. (bear cub growling) Well, come on, let's go to bed. Come on, come on. Here we go. (grunting) Easy does it. Up. There you go. (uneasy music) (eagle crying) (camera clicking) (camera clicking) - Where the hell do you get off talking about Michael Walker? You have never shown me that you even give a shit about me. I feel like I know more about Michael Walker from one night than I know from you in two years. - Listen, I'm not accusing you, I'm not. - Accusing me? You want me to tell you about that night? - Yes. - I had a lovely dinner with a nice man, and I had a wonderful time. And for one night I didn't feel like some store keeper or somebody's mother. I just felt like an attractive woman. - I think I have to go now. - I don't want you to go. - Stella, don't kneel. - Listen, why don't you give me a chance? I want to be with you. I think you need me. (soft music) You never even touch me. - No. - Well why? Is it so hard to touch me? Is it? Just touch me. - Stella, I feel awkward. I feel your heart beat in my hand. Stella, I like you. I'd like to go now, please. I never had any doubts about you being a woman. There's nothing wrong with you. (birds chirping) (uneasy music) (bird cawing) - You gotta get outta here. - Why? - Remember those two guys you had the fight with at the store? Well they just landed at the dock and they got four friends with 'em. They got guns and explosives, dynamite, I think. - You better get back to the mainland. - Listen goddammit, they're comin' here to kill you! Aren't ya gonna leave? - Nope. - Want any help? - Yeah. (helicopter blades whirring) - [Hewey] What do you think, Charlie? It's about time, ain't it? - [Charlie] Yeah. - [Hewey] Homer, you got them explosives? - [Homer] I got 'em all. - [Hewey] Hand 'em over. - Anybody see that bird man, just blow him up, and take this whole goddamn island with him. I don't want nothin' left standin'. - Don't worry about nothin', Charlie. When I set that charge under the house, their ain't gonna be nothin' but feathers and fl yin' assholes. (laughing) - [Charlie] Let's go. - [Hewey] Let's do it. (uneasy music) (flare hissing) (machine guns chattering) (helicopter blades whirring) - Hey Charlie, let's see what that fucking hero thinks of our kind of fireworks. (pistol slide clicking) - Split up, Hewey, you go that way. - Okay Charlie. - We're here. - Shut up. (owl hooting) Firebombs! (explosion booming) (birds crying) (horse whinnying) (explosions booming) - [Man] Get him! (explosions booming) - [Man] Get the tower! (men shouting) (explosions booming) (explosions booming) (blowgun hissing) (man grunting) - [Man] What's the matter? (explosion booming) (chickens clucking) (pistol thumping) (pistol thumping) (blowgun hissing) (man grunting) (gun booming) (horse whinnying) (fire crackling) (uneasy music) - Charlie? Charlie? (gun booming) (Hewey screaming) Shit! (fuse hissing) Goddamn, Jesus! Jesus help! - Hewey? (Hewey screaming) Hewey! - Help Charlie! - Hewey! (explosion booming) Hewey? Hewey, where are you? Hewey? (men shouting) - [Judge] This court will determine who should be punished and who should not! - Charlie! - What do you want, Sheriff? - I've got a warrant for your arrest, Charlie. - For what? - I'm sorry Charlie, it's manslaughter. - Don't say anything, Charlie. - How much this gonna cost me? - [Lawyer] Charlie, take it easy. - Uh, Mr. Whittier? We had a little problem down here. A man's been killed. No, I didn't kill him. It's like the eyes of the world are focused on this place. Got TV cameras, reporters, the whole enchilada. - Mr. Walker, you struck me as a man with drive and initiative. However, if you're going to forsake your ambition because of one unexpected incident, then quite clearly I was wrong. But to anticipate your next request, yes, I will raise the price to $250,000. But I shall expect positive results from you within the next few days. - Uh, you guys wait over there for just a minute would you please? - Hi. - Hi. - I'm Amy Rollings, TV News, Charlotte's number one. (laughing) - I just bet you are. - Could I talk to you for a minute? - Yeah sure, step into my office. Yeah, I know Malden. - He intrigues me. - Oh, is that right? - Yeah, what is he doin' out there on that island runnin' around like Robinson Crusoe? Oh, come on, mack, I bet you know. I just bet you know. - You know I've seen you on TV. - Oh, which was it, was it the eagles or unmarried women in the menopause? - Uh, what? - Well look, I'm new at the local station, I've only done two pieces. It had to be one or the other. - It was eagles. - Listen, if I could just get this little story about Malden, you know, the why's and the wherefores and all that, now my stock is gonna go way up with my boss. - You're not drinkin'. - Now what do I have to do to get you to talk? (upbeat music) Now you gotta talk about Malden. (laughing) - Can I catch my breath first? - What's the angle on Malden? - You really wanna know, don't you? - Yeah, I do. - Alright, you ready? - I'm ready. - He's in trouble with his taxes and I'm from the IRS. (laughing) - Seriously. - Serious as a heart attack baby. - You bastard. - Now you learned something real important today. You never mix business and pleasure with me. - Jesus Christ. - Now what's the matter? - Let go of me you goddamn jerk, son of a bitch! - Ah, don't be a sore loser! - Up yours, pal. - You gotta learn to laugh at yourself if you're gonna survive. - Spare me your cracker barrel philosophy. - Ah, come on, come on, come on! - You know I've met some shit-heads in my time, but you, pal, are top of the list. (laughing) - Well, birds of a feather flock together don't they? - Yeah. (laughing) (door slamming) (peaceful music) (goat bleating) - It's not a capital crime to want privacy. Not yet. - Arthur, people are beating this guy up. They're trying to blow him apart. - So what? - So what? Arthur, sweetheart, there's a story here! - I don't see one. - Jesus Christ. - What do you want, Amy? - A couple of days. Come on, two or three days, I'll go to some people. I'll talk to the cops. I'm offering you the opportunity to write your name in the hall of fame and you can do is sit there with your finger up your ass. - Three days, Amy, that's all. - Thank you. - Amy, you know all my life I have admired Will Rogers when he said, I've never met a man I didn't like. He never mentioned a woman. (uneasy music) - This island's about 10 miles in diameter, huh? - Yeah. - Where'd you get the money to buy it? Family rich? They're not rich. - They're dead. - They were rich? - Yeah. - Don't you think you're taking this noble savage bit a little too far? - No. - Well aren't you ever gonna get off this island? - Check. Check again. - I can't beat you, Fast Eddie. - You played the last five moves like an asshole. - It's only a game. - Yeah, I won. (laughing) - Hell of a game. - Mom? - Yeah? - Do you like Jim? - I like Jim, yeah. - Do you really like him? - I really like him, why? - You know, I like him too. But I'd really like a dad like Jim. - Oh you would, would you? - Yes. - Well you! - Hey, hey stop! - Get going! (laughing) - You're gonna ruin the cake! (goat bleating) Wow! Here. - Adam, you! Adam, goddamn boy, when I get you, oh! - Hey boy. - What you doin' up there? - Mr. Walker. - Yeah? - So he's puttin' you to hard labor? - Yeah, surprise, surprise. - Well, give a hand. - What have we got in here? - I thought it was time y'all had something decent to eat. - (laughing) Good thinkin'. - I know. - [Adam] Freeze! - Look out. - Besides, it's Adam's birthday. - Oh yeah, happy birthday! - Let's get the chicken out. - Gonna get that? Get that and the plates? - So what is this here, a birthday cake? - Chicken and a cake. - You know it. - Yep. - A little salad. - Some salad. - A little potato salad. - Good. - How's that? - You gotta come around more often. - My God, you know if I hadn't seen this I would never believe it. - You ain't seen nothin' yet. Come on. - Oh my god, he's got a snake, come on. (laughing) - Cool! (imitating pistol booming) - Who is this? - I don't know. - Is this the eagle that lives on the island? - Where? - Well, it's supposed to be. - Neato. - Why don't you take a look in there. - Oh, watch out. Fall over everything, here. Look at all these things. Oh, this is beautiful. Look at the flowers, Adam. - [Adam] Cool, this is nice! He built it for us, Ma. - Hey. ♪ The windmill is ready but the wind is not ♪ - (laughing) We've got visitors in there. - What? - We have visitors. - What's going on? - Ah come on, take it easy. - Jim it is just beautiful, I... - You bring 'em over? - What do you mean, them? You mean Adam and me? - I'm letting you stay a couple days and pretty soon you're selling tickets! - Oh now just a minute, he didn't have anything to do with our coming over. - Jim, why are you so mad? - Stay out of this! - Hey, come on, what's the big deal? The kid wants to see the island, it's his birthday! - What are you talkin' about, it's not his birthday! - Jim, you said I could come! - Shut up, you're a day early! - Come on, Adam, we're just gonna go. - It's not his birthday, is it? Stella, you can stay. I... You can look around. Shit! - Well I gotta hand it to you, big fella, you got a real delicate touch. - Why did you have to let 'em in the room? - Look, goddamn it, don't you blame me for your mistakes! - I wasn't, I wasn't ready. - She left you lunch, enjoy yourself! - [Jim] And where do you think you're going? - Wait a minute. Stella, sorry about all that. - Why, it's not your fault. - You do love him, don't ya? (boat engine rumbling) (horse whinnying) - Going? - Yeah, I'm doin' you a favor. I'm going back to my tent. - What's wrong with you? (laughing) - What's wrong with me? You're a loner, you can't stand people, remember? - Oh yeah, and you know all about people? - I know all about you. You're a pretentious son of a bitch. You claim you know everything about nature, all about life. You don't know nothin'! That boy worships the ground you walk on, Stella loves ya, and you could care less. - Yeah, and you know all about Stella, I forgot. - Well I will say this for you, you are consistent. Most consistent bastard I've ever met. - Are you finished? Do you still wanna see the eagles? - Yeah, sure. (peaceful music) (ducks quacking) - Adam! - Thanks for lettin' me see it. I know it means a lot to you. By the way, welcome back to the human race. - Well, I shut myself off. I couldn't really help it. I trusted you and the sky didn't fall in. - I think you oughta go back and explain to Stella and Adam. - Oh yeah? - [Mike] Yeah. I think you oughta go see 'em right now. - What do I do? - Well you could start by takin' off this crap, takin' a bath, and puttin' on a suit or something maybe. - I don't know what to say. - How 'bout, I'm sorry? - What do you mean, I'm sorry, I'm sorry for? - It means, I'm sorry. Two words, I'm sorry. Why don't you go ahead? I'll just finish up this roll of film. - You take care of the animals? - No problem. - Wish me luck. - Good luck. (sinister music) - Adam? - Hi. - Listen, I'm sorry about yesterday, I really am. I was wrong. I brought you your birthday present. I made it. It flies. (peaceful music) Friends again? - Forever. - Are you sure? - Positive. - Think your mom is still mad at me? - Yes. - You know where she is? - Yeah, she's up by the old barn. - Can you wait for me here and I'll see ya later? - Okay. (uneasy music) (birds chirping) - Stella? Stella? I wanna talk to you for a minute. - Stay away from me! And you stay away from the store, and I don't want you near my son! - You see, I'm an animal. I'm a fool. I had a family once. That's what I wanted to tell you. And I'm not very smart. I tried to say things in a different way. Stella, my memory is full of clouds. I can make up lies, I can! I don't know how to relate to people. I don't mind loneliness, silence doesn't bother me. I'm kinda used to it. Stella, I've been thinking a lot about you. It's because you're always so nice to me, that's why. - I don't care anymore, do you hear me? - That's too bad. Ever since I met you, the first time in the store, I hear your voice. I carry it in my pack around the island. - Oh, your island, where you play God to all the animals. - And I talk to it, I know what to say. I say things like, I missed you yesterday, and I love the smell of your skin. It's like a garden, almost. Or I watch the stars at night because they remind of your eyes. Stella, I have to be honest. I want you, I need you. I do. Get down. Come down here. (peaceful music) Got you now. (laughing) (laughing) (eagle chirping) (birds chirping) (uneasy music) Adam isn't coming back, is he? I don't want him to find us here. - Adam, oh I don't know what time it is. (eagle crying) (rock grinding) (grunting) (dramatic music) (eagle crying) (bird squawking) (eagle crying) (eagle crying) (uneasy music) (horse nickering) - What's wrong, Spec? Slim, you're an asshole. (snake hissing) No guns. No traps. (dramatic music) (rifle clicking) (eagle crying) (eagle crying) (camera clicking) (eagle chirping) - [Mike Voiceover] And by taking these eggs, this rare breed will become extinct. - Does that bother you so? - I trusted you. - [Whittier] $250,000. - It's your funeral. - Who are you? - You have three weeks to obtain one before they hatch. (eagle screaming) (grunting) (eagle crying) (uneasy music) (rifle booming) (rifle booming) (grunting) - You asshole! I didn't touch your fucking eggs! I didn't touch your fucking eggs! Oh shit. (rifle booming) (Mike shouting wordlessly) (water splashing) (gurgling) (eagle crying) - You ugly piece of human shit! I told you stay away from the mountain! (birds chirping) What the hell were you doin' up there? Talk! Mr. Walker, aren't you lucky. - I didn't touch the eggs. Either shoot me or help me outta here. Look, I needed the money! I coulda made a fortune. - Two eggs. - Yeah. Well whatta we do now? - Get out of here. - Good idea. Good idea. - Adam, I want you back inside. - Watch out for my plane. - I'm telling ya, you're wasting your time. I'd appreciate it if y'all would leave. - Wait a minute, that might be them. (peaceful music) Here they come. - You're not gonna do this, Amy. - Get out of here, Mike. - Good mornin' Mr. Malden, or should I say, Sergeant Malden? We know you won a Silver Star in Vietnam. Isn't the war still goin' on out there on your island? We know that men have been killed, but the public is entitled to know why. Look, look, here's the scar, they mentioned it in the police report, it is him, it is him! Look, why don't you just show us your Vietnam scar, Mr. Malden? - Vietnam, 1972. You're right. - You were once in a psychopathic ward of a veteran's hospital and weren't you responsible for the death of your wife and son in a car accident? - [Stella] Woman, I can't believe I listened to you. (laughing) - Son of a bitch! Come on! - Come on, I got a home cooked meal and a special dessert. - Shit. (laughing) What the hell? (tire squealing) - You wanna story, right? - Right. - I've got one for ya. About a mountain climber and an egg man. - How much is it gonna cost me this time? (laughing) - Well the terms are always negotiable. Get in. (peaceful music) - [Amy] Egg man? (water splashing) (water splashing) (water splashing) (eagle chirping) Good mornin', I have an environmental story for you today. Bird watchers have recently spotted a pair of eagles much larger than average which appears to fit none of the recognized breeds. What's more, these birds have built a nest on Cherokee Island. - Good morning, sir. - A few miles west of here, and excitement among bird lovers is becoming tense because this is mating season. Unfortunately though, we can't get any closer to the island since it privately owned and the owner has made it very clear that until those eggs are hatched he will allow no visitors. But we certainly do wish that couple every success. This is Amy Rollings, Eyewitness News, Charlotte's number one. - [Announcer] Next week, Charlotte's number one, Amy Rollings, does a special report on a millionaire recluse who will even break the law to complete his rare egg collection. (dramatic music) ♪ You got to walk a little slower when you're with her ♪ ♪ Take the time to be tender, that's the plan ♪ ♪ You got to stand a little taller ♪ ♪ While her world falls to pieces ♪ ♪ Only then can you hold her in your hand ♪ ♪ You got to five for every moment that she gives you ♪ ♪ Make the one in a million understand ♪ ♪ You got to stand a little taller ♪ ♪ While her world falls to pieces ♪ ♪ Only then can you hold her in your hand ♪ ♪ Now too many faces have come down between us ♪ ♪ And I was the fool to be ♪ ♪ And I can't deny you the wide open spaces ♪ ♪ As long as she stops loving me ♪ ♪ You got to stand a little closer when you hold her ♪ ♪ Make her feel like a woman, understand ♪ ♪ You got to stand a little taller ♪ ♪ While her world falls to pieces ♪ ♪ Only then can you hold her in your hand ♪



