BIG HEAD MONSTER (2001) - FULL TRANSCRIPT

foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Do you want to do this? It's already dead. Damn it! Come out! Stop it, you bastard! Who are you? We are playing war game here, it's dangerous! Is that an illegal immigrant? Here, I have an illegal immigrant as target come and help me. The illegal immigrant acts really fast! Those who called us... to tell us that their incredible stories, after those obscure & unexplainable experience, they will ask... Why am I so ill-fated to meet such thing? Isn't that ill-fated? It's just a matter of different point of views. We discussed it with a professor before, he gave us an unique opinion. He said, God is what people respect, demon is what people are afraid of. If only you are not afraid of it, even it appears in front of you, it can't be defined as demon. You can take it as a passerby. It's almost time, we'll meet tomorrow at the same time same air. In the huge world of what you don't know, it's comprehensive. In there, something are weird and incredible. They may be true, they may be fraud. But, no matter what, they can arouse people's greatest interest. In this incredible world, There were many weird stories recorded Some are strange, you may or many not believe in But I can tell you Even some weird things happen on you you may not believe in it My name is Ben the product of the Horror Hot Line Why don't you go to sleep? I am choosing some songs for promotion. Did I wake you up? What is it? Just one more song before I finish! What's up? Why put all plugs into one socket? Don't plug your TV set next to my Hi-fi set, okay? It's over-Ioaded. I don't know it's mattered, you didn't tell me before. You always stay home, please tidy up. You know, we don't have a maid. I just got one song please! Well, let's buy another one later, okay? This is new, it's from the record company for promotion purpose. It's not for sale. I made a dream last night. I saw him in my dream, he is already a young man. He ran towards me. I opened my arm for him of course. But, he ran past me... and kept on running away. Well, this is the fact... When you saw him being a youth in your dream, it means you are yearning him to grow up. But the fact is, you can't keep him. You know? Reality and illusion are sometimes not separable. Sometimes, they may be contradictory, you can't leave it apart. Helen, did you tell him? Did you tell him that you got rid of the baby? Yes I did. Young men are energetic. So, our radio station employed many young people. We should take a few shots around here later. He is supervising a late show, so he comes back late. When he is back, he has many things to do. Pal. Hi Has Ben come back yet? Yes, he is having a meeting with Ruth and Edmond. Thank you. Brian, are you looking for me? Let me introduce, these two are the hosts of the program, Ruth and Edmond. This is the producer, Ben. This is Mavis, I've told you before. She is a reporter from the American TV Net. Nice to meet you! How are you? Thank you for your assistance. Take your time, let me know if you have any problem, okay? Thank you. Well, you just have to do what you normally do. We will shoot the outside environment first... All right. Thank you. See you... Okay. Hong Kong has always been a very special city. Its international style is influenced by the east and west, so that its unique plan, has made its radio program any different from other cities, today, we are here at the radio station, and we are going to find out! Hi! Cut! Cut! You just act normal, don't pay attention to us. We are acting normal! Our meal break is over, we have to work now. If you want to shoot something special, hey, we arranged an interview with the mediumistic, Maybe you want to go to the interview? Sure. Okay! Let's go. Excuse me. Yes. Excuse me... Who are you? We are here to see Auntie Ying, we're from the radio station. Auntie Ying, are you ready? How many years have you worked as a mediumistic? Whose family raised a funeral lately? I have worked as a mediumistic since 1 2, it's over 40 years. Everyone in this district knows me. Why did you choose this job? I inherited this job from my ancestors. It's a benefaction to be a mediumistic. All my ancestors died after 90 years old My grandma who lives in hometown is now 109 years old. May I ask you a question? Who are you? You can call me Mavis. Miss Ho, right? Have my advice don't be nosy in these days. It may not hurt you, but it may be a drag to your friends. I don't want to see you again. You want a wide shot or close up? Mavis? Wide shot, please. For many things, believe it or not, it depends on you. Say worshipping God, it's just to have an easy conscience. Most important of all, you won't have any regrets. Now, let's answer the next call. Hello, this is the Horror Hot Line. Hello... May I know your name? My name is Chris. Chris, what story would you like to tell us tonight? I'd like to tell you something happened when I was in primary 3. Okay, Chris, you may start now. In 1963, I was studying in a boarding school in Western District. In that September, my six buddies and I... played football together... What's the matter with you? Why did you kick it that far away? Who did it? Go get it back now. All right, I'll get it. Hurry up! Go! I always see it in my dream, it's not real. It's a dim green light. It's dark. On the beach, I saw a ghost in red. Where is the ball? Where is it? Where have you been? Principal... A big head! He has many eyes! The Koran? What nationality is your principal? He is an Iranian. Chris, but you haven't told us what you did see! Chris, are you there? Maybe he is too nervous. He hung up. This happened 30 years before... I heard him saying something before he hung up. Maybe Chris doesn't want to recall the memory at all. Let's take a break, we'll be back after the news round-up. Edmond, let us hear the end of the last conversation. He seemed to say something else, right? Yes, he said something else. You mean the last call? Yes, the one who named himself Chris. You haven't told us what you did see. It's over. Let's hear it again, would you louder the volume? Sure. The Koran. What nationality is your principal? He is an Iranian. Chris, you haven't told us what you did see. A big head baby. Edit that line and make it as the jingle after the news. When the show is back, just stick to the topic... The Big Head! Okay? Thank you! Before the news round-up, Chris called to us... and told us a weird story happened in his primary 3. When we asked what he did see at that time, he didn't answer and he hung up. In fact, before he hung up he did say something. But his voice is too low, many people couldn't hear that. So, as for this relation Why do you come? I told you I'd pick you up after the show But I'm not finished yet. It's okay, I'll wait for you, you... I'd like to tell you something happened when I wa Okay, Chris, you may start now In 1963 I was studying in a boarding school in Western District In that September my six buddies and I... The Koran What nationality is your principal? He is an Iranian Chris, you haven't told us What you did see? A big head baby (The Iranian principal of the Western District Primary School) (The Koran, 1963) (Monster the big head baby) Eight pages of our bulletin board are all full. They are all about the Big Head. Are you serious? Ben, since last night, we have 27 calls regarding the Big Head Take them all to my room. I want to tell you my story... In fact, the experience is the same as that one It's about the Big Head, too. I heard people saying two different stories about it. One of them is, when it's time of war because of virus... a big headed baby was born. It was between 1962 and 1963. A baby was born. Just after it was born, it could stand up. And it talked like an adult. Not long after, it fell from the bed and died. Edit these tapes and let the jingle on air at 2 pm. Be quick! Sure! May I interview you now? Ben, do you believe this Big Head incident? Not quite. You let those stories which you don't believe on air... Do you think this is a conflict against the integrity of the media people? Just let the audience decide. If you don't handle this questionable information with care, you are misleading the audiences, do you think so? We are working for a commercial organization, I think, the interest of the audiences always goes first. Although I don't quite believe in it, I think it's a wonderful story. That's why I let it on air. I share a similar point of view with you on this matter, but my working style is a bit different from yours. In 1963, only one Iranian was found a principal in a primary school. I've got his address. Thank you. Come out quickly! Be good, come out. This guy has just been sent in. He has no I.D. card, he may be an illegal immigrant. Come out! Come out. Don't be anxious, you may scare him. Little friend... Why do you hide in there? Come out. I'll treat you to candy, okay? Have you prepared your questions? I know what I'm going to ask, okay? That means you didn't prepare anything. Let me host the interview. Connie?! Yes, are you Mavis? Yes, this is Ben. He graduated some years before I did. He wants to visit principal too, that's why he comes with me. You are so nice! But I told you on the phone, my daddy is not in a good condition he can't speak now. I don't think he can help in this project for the school anniversary. It's okay, I think it's good to let the other old students know more about him But, I have a special request, You can interview me, but not my dad. No problem, don't worry about it. Okay! Connie, Principal is a Muslim, so many years did he ever mention anything to you... about his special religious experience, say exorcism? No! Except us Have any other old students visited him? Since he's been here, you are the second group of students to come. Really? Who came before us? Do we know them? They are 7 guys. 7 guys? We're the old students of principal, who are you? I am his daughter? But he is an Iranian, you are his daughter... I am his adopted daughter. Adopted daughter? Chris, behave yourself. Are you sure his name is Chris? I mean, they came long long time ago. Have they contacted you again? No. Can you tell us how they looked like? Thank you for the interview. Maybe we'll come again to seek for your help again. Sure, you're always welcome, bye. Bye! Bye! Can you tell her to follow another program? Say those ones about the entertainment news. Why not ask them to interview Jacky Chan? That's typical HK specialty. No, I... I mean... I don't know how to describe them. They always make you uncomfortable like the ointment Are there many answering calls? All are talking about the Big Head. Horror Hot Line, are you going to tell ghosts stories? Yes, about the Big Head again? Wait, don't hang up. Ben, can we take some shots inside the studio? Why? You always shoot outside. Don't worry, my cameraman is very professional. We are very professional too. We won't let you go into the studio, you get that? Fine! Welcome to our show. Horror Hot Line, at 1 2 am. If you visited our web site this day, you'll notice one thing. Many people are responding to the Big Head. We'll arrange the responses and we'll edit it... Get a technician now and fix the air-conditioner for them. Welcome to the Horror Hot Line. You're welcome to call us, our number is 1834997 or, you can call our 24 hours hotline for ghost stories. call 21 239229 to tell us something about the Big Head. Or, you can visit our web site at metroradio. Com. Hk. Call us and tell us what you know about the Big Head. Yes, the air-conditioner is checked, it's of no problem. But the studio has not been checked yet. We'll do it after the show. Sure, thank you very much. I have a friend who lives in Western District. He said many residents in Western District know about the Big Head. He lost his way in the hospital... He came to a dead end of hospital he heard a loud baby's cry. His head is so big! want Chris to call again I to describe the Big Head's appearance. My dad worked in a government department he did the filing job. I don't want to mention which department he is He told me that he handled a file named Big Head before. What's going on in there? I have no idea. I can't see anything. Horror Hot Line, Do you want to tell ghost story? Yes. Ben, it's Chris who called last night. Is that Chris? Are you checking on me? You are checking who I am? One of you will die tonight. What's the matter? Why dead air? Ruth! Follow him! I want to get a close up on her! Come on, hurry! Yes. Now I want a close up on him. What's wrong with you? Why stopped talking? Why? Come on, zoom in, don't worry! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Cut, did you get it? Okay. Good! What are you doing here? Good job. Out... Out... Out! I felt that... around us... There was one more person around us. Liza, honey, of course I miss you. I love you too. Don't you go worry, that pretty head of you, okay? I promise, I'll be back soon. I promise, don't worry! I love you too. I've got to go, okay! I promise, I call you tomorrow, okay. Bye! Hello! Are you sure? All right, I'll come to your hotel now. All right, bye, okay, I'll be quick. Yes, Liza, we, we have been trying our best to look for him. What's the matter? He has got his phone with him. Okay, relax. Okay, Liza, Liza... What happened? Mike is gone missing. So? She is talking to his wife now, Liza. Calm down, everything is fine, we will get back to you when we find him, okay? Did he say anything to you last night? All right, okay, cool, take care! How is it? Will he go to a nightclub or a bar? I want to show you something. During the time of dead air last night one more person was in the studio. Ruth... What can you see? Ruth... When I got in this morning, I found Mike missing. And the picture was frozen here. It seems that he wanted to show me this. I don't know him. Who knows him? This is Chris. What happened? Who is he? I really want to know what happened. If you know it, please tell me. We are not your father's old students. In fact, I am a reporter. He is a producer of the radio station. Someone called to his show. He said that he met a big head baby 30 years ago. We are now investigating the truth of it. The man who called the show named himself Chris. He mentioned his principal who was a Muslim. That's your father, that's why we contacted you. This is everything we know. I... I met this person this morning. You met him this morning? Where did you see him? I... I just met him in the hospital. I did see him... I saw him going into my father's room. Dad, hands off me... My father held tightly of my hand. It seemed that he wanted me to witness his death. Daddy! It felt like... he... became another person... before his death. Don't be sad! f those 7 guys I are your daddy's old students. Can you take us to the school office to get their information? Little pal, it's time to take medicine. Only you treat him as your son. Look at him, he is no longer a teenager! He doesn't know how to go to toilet, he needs us to feed him pills! Look, he is staring at me again. He is quite a good boy! It's time to take medicine, come on, let me help you. What do you want to draw? Let me teach you, okay? Show me your hand. Hold it tight, hold the pencil tight. Yes, that's correct. Look, you see the color here? Okay, take your time. Try it yourself. Wonderful! What are you drawing? Is it finished? Let me see it. What is it? What a big head! Is that you? Well, shall I call you Big Head? Okay? Do you really want so much information for the show? When will it be shown? In the Lunar New Year. It'll be shown on the school anniversary night. It'll be shown at the hall. Will you come together for the show? You are so nice to give the old students a big hand! I am a graduate too. We'd go for lunch now. If you want to leave before we come back, ask the maid to lock it up, okay? Let's go for lunch, come on. Bye bye! Bye bye! In 1963, for all inner and inter school competitions, these 7 guys won all the races. I think they must be the guys we are looking for. It won't be difficult to find them out. They were brilliant, now, I think they won't be nobodies. Ben, I don't have anything you want. I have checked the lists of doctors, lawyers & seniors of listed companies. No names you gave are found on the lists. Let me check something in your library, okay? Bastard, you said to check information What the hell are you doing here? I really want to ask you a question first. Is this a library or is this a storeroom? I can find information of 1961 here, and 1962 too. Here is a paper in 1963 and this is a paper in 1964. And this is in 197 1, all are colored paper. It won't be messy again, I have to tidy it up again. Alright Would you please stop talking. You are giving me hard time again... Ben... A woman gave birth to a big head baby at Western District Hospital Ben, the 7 guys you are looking for... I've found 6 of them here. Six men committed suicide at a factory in Western District Horrible and scary death! I can't find an explanation for what happened. It's something extraordinary, of course you can't explain it. I don't believe in ghosts. You are stiff-necked, that's why you can't make friends easily. You are lucky! It's because we are not friends. Sure I am lucky. I don't have to make friends with you. Do you want a coffee? No, thanks. Hello! Mike, Mike, where are you? We have been looking for you the whole day, where are you? Okay, alright, alright, calm down... Tell me where you are, we will come and get you, okay! We will come and get you, it's okay... We will come and get you! Do you have a pen? Thank you! Tell me where you are now what is your address? Sai - Wan - Wing... What? What? Mike! Mike! Mike! Where are you going? What's up? I am going to Western District to look for my boom man! He's gone to the place where the 6 men committed suicide. Mike... Oh shit, I forgot the camera! Mike! Mike! Did he just call you? Try to call him now. Mike, where are you? Which part are you in? Where are you? Okay. What colour is the door? What do you mean? Mike, where are you? Mike, are you there? What? Are you sure you spoke to the victim at the scene? I am sure. Do you have anything else to tell us? Nothing else. Miss Ho. According to the report from the coroner, when you found the victim, he had been dead for 1 2 hours. Officer Mak, her lawyer has arrived. You've come the right time. Your client has just finished her statement you can take her away then. Do you know that? Before the lawyer's arrival, You have no right to force my client to give any statement. She insisted to give statement. Come on, fill the forms and leave. You won't believe it, I bet. The police won't believe it either. When we go to the court, the judge won't believe it too. So, what can you help me? Being your lawyer, I don't mind... guarding you to give a new statement g which is legally presentable. Let's go. Your boss doesn't want you to go on investigating too. Yes, this is Mavis's calling. Is there anywhere I can find him? Okay, fine! Please tell him that this is Mavis's calling from Hong Kong, and I will not take any bullshit from this company, and I will not take any bullshit from its lawyers, I am going to keep on reporting the facing truth, and I will find it! Shit! Mavis What? It's Liza. Yes, Liza. We found him. I'm sorry, Liza! Hi, Liza, please don't cry, we're also sorry about this. Are you okay? You should stand it. You were so tough over the phone. You said that You promised to find out the truth right? If you collapse, who will find it out? Right? I can't stand it, I can stand no more! He is dead! He is dead, if you can't find the truth. His death would be worth nothing, right? My friend is dead, but I don't know how to find it out. I don't know how, I can't! What's happened? What's happened? I have something to tell you, come and take a seat. Let's get married. What did you just say? Let's get married, don't you want it? Come on, let's go to sleep. Dave, rolling? Rolling. Okay! Karen, you have worked here for 40 years, you must have known this hospital very well. I just take it as my second home. Can you share something big about the hospital with us? 2 years ago, the obstetrics and gynecology department fought for an expansion. Many incidents happened, but it's rather long. In 1987, we suffered 2 hours electricity cut. That was a disaster to us! And, in 197 4, quadruplets were born. But unfortunately, all were dead. In 1961... Was there a big head baby born in this hospital? Where did you learn this from? I learnt if from a library of a newspaper. Karen, are you all right? When I tried to remember this, I would always be in a daze. Can you tell me the story? It was my second year here... as a student nurse. On that day, I worked as normal. Suddenly, I heard a woman crying. I ran to the 2nd floor, and wanted to check what happened. I saw a nurse running out from the delivery room, blood was all over her uniform. She kept on crying, she seemed like being crazy. I wanted to move forward and help. But the doctor suddenly rushed out. He yelled at me and stopped me. He asked me to leave. Get away! I didn't know what happened. I just knew that, suddenly the hospital turned into a war zone. Policemen were found everywhere, the 2nd floor was sealed. I tried to peep in. I saw many guys in suits and white gloves walking around. I didn't know which departments they were from. I heard something too... If the big head baby was kept inside the cage, I think it would be very horrible. Where were the doctor and the nurse who delivered the baby? Never see them again. Didn't anyone mention about it? Not among the nurses, no one dared to mention it. But after that, I saw an article in a local paper, it was similar to what we saw in the hospital. But I don't know how the news was spread to the media. Can you show me the delivery room where the big head baby was born? Shit! How is the woman? The baby's head is big, she can't make it. give me the knife. Forget it, save the baby first. Yes, I see his head. Yes, it's coming out. It's a monster! Are you okay? Big Head, let's go. Ben, take care! Auntie Ying... It's predestinated! Come in. Auntie Ying, my friend died. I warned you before, but you didn't listen to me. I want to find that six guys. Why do you want to know it? Someone is dead already. I must know it. All right, you really want to know it? Take me to where they died. I'll bring their souls to meet you. But, is that good or bad to you, it depends on your luck. You have a new message. It's me, I have considered a long time before calling you. We've tried very hard to solve our problems. But, we failed at last. I am leaving, I hope we would forget each other as soon as possible. For one thing, you have the right to know it. One month ago, I aborted our baby. Forget it, you can't keep that woman and baby at all. Poor guy! When I try to get their souls here, remember to close your eyes. Never try to look. I can't tell you what will happen, I just try my best to help you. Kneel down! To hell with you, Monster! Go to hell, devil... Close your eyes... Don't go, don't go! Go! Go! Auntie Ying. It's you again! Even you don't come, I was just about to call you. About the case you reported yesterday. We found a finger print on the victim's glasses. We checked it, and we found a suspect. Is his name Kwan? That's right. That is Chris Kwan you mentioned in your statement. But what we have found after that... is a dried dead body. A coroner's report is issued. It said that Chris Kwan had died for 3 years. But why his finger print was found on the glasses, we can't explain it. We decided to close file. I hope you would stop looking into this matter too. Passport, ticket. Leave Hong Kong by tonight. Yes, speaking. Where are you? Thank you. Dave, there is an interview. Do you want to come with me? Do you have a cigarette? I don't smoke. Dave, do you get a cigarette to him? Are you Sam? Can you tell us how you met the Big Head? 2 weeks ago My friends and I played war game in Mo Sing Peak. I can't remember the details. I don't know why, I was brought to a row of stone houses. Then, I saw a cage in one of the stone houses, then, I tried to walk in. Before I walked in, I felt someone was walking behind me. I turned back and took a look. I saw a woman of no face. She was in a red dress. I was so afraid. I couldn't help being frightened. Then, I heard a baby crying in the cage. I turned back and looked into the house. It was... I saw one... His head was as big as a rubbish bin. But, his body was just as big as a three years old boy. The skin of his head wrinkled. I think, he had 6 to 8 eyes. His skin color was grey. I was so afraid. The grey color was similar as the color drawn by a pencil. Later on, I didn't know what happened to me. I really can't remember it. Are you going to take me away? When did you wake up? I woke up today. Damn it! I woke up and I found myself staying here. Those people are nuts. They just called me Big Head. I don't know what they are talking about. I told them I am not Big Head, they don't believe me. They don't let me go either. Will you take me away? In these two weeks, have you seen anything strange... Or, did you experience anything you will never forget? No, I have no idea. If I want you to take me to where you saw the Big Head, will you go with us? You nuts! Sam, can you tell us one more time... Where did you see the Big Head? In Mo Sing Peak. Dave, get a close up, get a close up on the rice, and the cage. Get the rice! Run! Helen Run, Big Head, run! Helen Connie Connie Did you say that you've s the Big Head Monster? Connie Connie Connie Connie Connie Connie Connie Did you really see Where did you see him When did you see him? In 1963 I was studying in Who are you? I was a primary 3 student In that year of September Who are you? I went playing football with my seven best friends Sam...



