FEARLESS (2006) - FULL TRANSCRIPT

foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- Late Ming Dynasty, China is invaded by strong countries, territories are divided Chinese citizens are bullied and given the label "Chinese are sick men" The Chinese couldn't stand this racist stereotype and rebelled To further destroy the pride of the Chinese, the ambassador created a martial arts competition The martial artists representing the 8 invading countries against China At that time, only one stood and represented China His name was Huo Yuan Jia "1910, Shanghai" "Theater Biarya, France" Our four competitors today are from the Shanghai Foreign Business Associate They will be challenging Huo Yuan Jia from the Jing Wu School Rules of this competition: The outcome is to be determined by the losers knockout or surrender "Boxing King from England, Peter Smith" Begin! "Royal Rider headcoach, Hans" Good Good job, master "Sword fighting champion, Anthony" And for our final round now A brilliant fighter from Japan Tian Zhong Ah Ye Will be fighting Huo Yuan Jia from the Jing Wu School Huo Yuan Jia Fearless "30 years ago, Tientsin Household of the Huo family" Master Come on, go now Stop! How dare you Who let you in here? I came to bring you some tea, dad How many times have I told you never to come in here. Go back and study now Resume Dammit, I gotta write for you all the time Once your dad knows about this You're gonna get beat up If we keep this secret nobody will know Hey, I want to show you something Let's go Hurry, Nong JingSun I'm coming Why are they fighting again? They're beating the drums again Let's go Today, Huo En from family Huo And Zhao Zhong Qiang from family Zhao On this stage, will decide who is superior Good! Good! What the hell are you two doing? Seeking death? Your dad is going to lose for sure today Your dad's going to get a serving of the Huo fist You just watch The Life and Death agreement has been signed Victory or defeat is decided amongst men Life and death is decided by God Masters. Begin the competition! Zhao Jian, does your dad understand the strength of our Huo's fist now? And todays winner is... Zhao Zhong Qiang Thank you, thank you so much! YuanJia, YuanJia After you Lets go, YuanJia YuanJia... Let's go back together, YuanJia... Weren't you feeling brave just now? And what now? Don't just cower there like rat Come on, get up! ZhaoJian, you better not force me! Shut your mouth You're just an idiot Along with your family too Come on fight with me now if you're brave I want to show you the power of our Zhao fist On stage, now! Stop, YuanJia! Come on, stop now! Yeah! You won! Now that you've had a taste of the power of our Zhuo fist Don't ever mention your whatever Huo fist to me again I'm the winner! I'm the winner! YuanJia... Come on up, YuanJia Let's go now I swear Huo YuanJia won't be beaten down by any other person here again Master, you... Let me apply some medicine for you LaiFook You go out first Yes What happened? Angry? Mum, why wont dad let me learn WuShu? This is because he loves you You were born with asthma ...and you're weak so you cant tolerate the training Isn't learning WuShu able to strengthen the body? And your desire to learn WuShu Is purely to strengthen your body? No, I want revenge I want Zhao Jian to know the power of the Huo family Child, the most powerful aspect of WuShu Is not to defeat others But to control your own arrogance No matter what, Virtue and morality must not be lost Learning WuShu is to strengthen the body, to help the others Not for you to go out causing trouble And definitely not for revenge Emm The way to interact between men Is that you have to learn to respect others Then others will respect you in return Of those that practise WuShu, Who dares not to respect them? People fearing you and respecting you Are two completely different things Come on, let's finish it all right? Otherwise, you'll be hit by your dad again All right "Death fist" I'm the winner! Come on, fly, fly now! Oh, oh Fall down now fall down now I won't fall down, I won't fall down Then I'll hit you down... I won't fall down Come on, again come on! I won't fall down Just move faster! Oh Be careful Good morning, Mom Yuen Jia, you forgot to take your medicine again this morning Ever since I trained at West Lake My asthma hasn't relapsed Wait for me, master Just look at your child Without a mother since an early age, you have doted on her too much You should marry again So that someone can help you take good care of her I have been busy about building up our family name I want everyone here in Tientsin to know and respect our power How will I have the time to remarry? You can't get me, I want to go out with you, dad Even though you have never been defeated this year The biggest opponent is yourself And what you really must conquer Is also yourself. I understand. "Issue of Challenge" Master... All right You have a good rest first, Mom Dad Your fist was not fast enough nor firm But don't you worry With me here The Huo's family name won't be defeated again "Life and death agreement" I definintely will become No 1 in Tientsin Dad My little Chui For me? No, I'm not it to giving you - Give me, come on No, I won't Then, what can I do for you to give it to me? I'll give it to you after you win Really? - Emm Promise "1900, Tientsin" We're counting on you, Master Huo Master Huo When will you become No 1 in Tientsin? I don't know, what do you think? Just today! Today! Master Huo... Hey, ZhaoJian Where have you been hiding all these years? I've travelled JiangNan's 17 provinces, 38 prefectures (?) And have trained a body of good kung fu I'm invincibile now Bullshit You're the one whose bullshitting Life and death statement has already been signed Begin the competition! Come on, Come up Hahahaha. What? Afraid? Come up. Come up and fall to your death You just wait Well done, master I have trained my stance to be immovable like roots in the ground Today, I will defeat your Huo fist Okay, I'll give you a chance.. ...To lose! Well done! Pussy-cat claw? - Tiger Claw!! Down you go Well done, master! Just because you said go down, doesn't mean I will ... Pussy-cat claw. - Its Tiger Claw!!!! You lose! Be careful Master...! Master! You all right? - I'm fine What a tough guy Don't touch me And our winner is... Huo YuanJia! Well done, good job, master Well, you're welcome You're welcome... Congratulations, this way Good Job, Master Huo - Thank you We reserved a table for you upstairs Master Huo All right... YuanJia! JingSun Why so late? Old place, come on Congratulations, Master Huo! Congratulations, Master Huo! Hello, everybody Come on, now JingSun Your GuYue resturant is becoming more and more popular This is all because of my friend's support Still remember when we were kids? You were just look like a bookworm I never expected you'd be good in doing business! The economy is bad A bookworm like me, except for running a business I won't have any other choice Come on eat now, YuanJia I searched all the chefs from all over the place Come on and enjoy local delicious dishes now All right, come on now You first, Master Huo Who the hell are they? -My name is XiaShan -My name is XuDaShan We sincerely hope Master Huo would take us up as apprentices We are willing to do anything for master All right You look like good guys Serve the wine After drinking this cup of wine we will be brothers Drink it! Congratulations, Master Huo! Thank you, Sifu Since we're happy today All the bills are on me All right Come on, let's eat now Little Chui, don't wait any longer It's time to sleep Come, take our young lady to her room QingQing, lets go back to the room to sleep My good child, listen to me It's time to sleep now Come What is this flavour? This is called coffee Its a western thing Not used to this? For the common people to improve themselves They have to learn modern things from others Just like me, even though I am a scholar I can't just think about earning money And for those who study WuShu should never just think about fighting in the arena National affairs are important too. National affairs? There are scholars like you to sort it out I'm just a fighter I just want to be No 1 in Tientsin Is it really that important to be number 1? Hey, come here JingSun, you're always just a spectator below the stage Now that you're up on the stage now Do you feel any different? What's the difference? When you're below stage The Life and Death struggle on the stage has nothing to do with you And you're just a spectator watching for fun But once you stand here You're only allowed to win Not to lose Well then, you're allowed to not go on the stage.. JingSun, listen Listen to what? I can't hear anything I can hear it You're our proud, Master Huo Well done, good! Good job well done Master Huo Number 1 in the world Iron head come now! Thank you Goodjob, master! Hey, don't be bothersome Who ever signed the agreement can come on up together now All the challengers Get up on stage, Now! Huo YuanJia When will you become No 1 in Tientsin? What do you think? Well, today! Is today! What the hell are you all doing? We are willing to do anything for Master Huo! All right, all right! You are all good men Serve the wine. After this cup of wine We will all be brothers Come on, drink it! Come on now Congratulations, Master Huo Thank you, welcome again Master Yu This is all the bill of Huo, boss All right Come on, drink now Come on, drink now Change to big why didn't you drink it? You haven't defeated my father, Master Qin, yet Come on, drink it YuenJia, you have already won 38 rounds consecutively In Tientsin there are no more opponents for you That's not right there's still one Still have to fight? To really be number 1 in Tientsin, I can't stop fighting What about apart from Tientsin? When will you stop fighting? I understand that too But I can't stop, all I have to do is just fight! By fighting l prove that I'm stronger than the other So what? YuanJia You should stop for a while just think about this carefully What's this? This is the bill for what your disciples and friends have spent this month I'll take care of that They're all just a mob How many really treat you like a brother? This is a JiangHu matter This is what we call personal loyalty And this one... All right I'll clear all of this bill tomorrow YuanJia I didn't come for money Accepting disciples and friends You should look for their moral qualities too Not just how well they can drink Be careful, Master Huo Good morning, Master Huo Good morning, Master Huo Good morning, Master Huo Good morning, Master Qin Aren't you Master Huo and No 1 in Tientsin? What a coincidence Master Qin Long time no see I thought you ... The fact that disciples are turning up on my door step as plentifiul as the falling leaves, Is something I cannot help Oh, really? And you prepared such a large gift for yourself Congratulations You're welcome This large present was actually bought for you Go help your master Welcome, Master Qin Master Nevermind that your income isn't enough even for the family The bills owing from those disciples are becoming more and more And what about our savings? It was used up 3 months ago Empty? Empty? Master! Fine, Fine. I tell you to train properly but no one listens Who did it? Master Qin! Master! Master! Today's the birthday of Master Qin We wish Master Qin will live a long life Well done! Father I sincerely wish you live a long life Good! Let me serve you one, master All right... I sincerely wish that you live a long life Master Huo today is my father's birthday he has booked out this resturant If you came for a drink could you kindly find another venue Please, Master Huo Shut your mouth Hey Today is my birthday I don't want to fight, if there's anything Lets discuss it another day Like adults You know it is shame to hurt my apprentice? I'm coming for justice today And what do you want? I've already signed, if you dare, put your name down Otherwise, bow down and apologise to me Get out of the way! YuanJia You're too much for this Can't you just discuss this on another day? I can't just put aside the insult of my apprentice No matter what I won't allow you to run wild in here I'm running wild? -YuenJia You're scared that I'm going to destroy your restaurant? I, Huo YuenJia will pay for the damage! I can't believe what you just said Leave now, We'll just consider our friendship of this many years, a wasted effort We've been friends for years, and you don't want me now? The knife is blind All of you, get out! To avoid hurting the innocent Come on, lets get out of here! Master! Master has won again! Let's go and drink now Drink now! Let's go and drink now Let's go and drink now Be careful Let me serve you a drink Come on, again Master is the most fearful he is impossible just look at him Master Huo Congratulations You're no. 1 in Tientsin now But let me tell you 2 hours ago Master Qin died Huo YuanJia When will you become No.1 in Tientsin? Well, it's today Today Huo YuanJia Well, it's today Well, it's today Huo YuanJia No. 1 in Tientsin It's today Mom! The room of the young lady I'm the one who killed them I take full responisibility for my actions Take care, Mom Tell Sifu, what you have done. Tell him! - Sifu I'm so sorry It's all my fault ( he did something with Master Qins daughter? ) That's why Master Qin punished me Sifu Since all the brothers knew I thought they would have told you about it Sifu! Sifu! Sifu! He's got a fever I'll go and get the medicine After he takes it and sweats it out, he will be fine he will be fine, he will be fine Go, go, go - Go, go He needs to rest, go, shoo! When I was 13 years old My vision started to deteriorate In my eyes, there seemed to be a fog that could not be lifted At that time I cried every day Grandma told me when you're feeling unhappy you should cry After that, you need to move on But in my heart, I can see things clearly You believe me? I'll help you wash your hair After awhile, hair will start to get knotted Wash it often and it will stay smooth and clean Grandma always says People, should always keep clean Only then can you walk upright in this world There are not many knots that can't be unravelled AhNiu AhNiu, you can sleep so much So I called you AhNiu Come, come, come, follow me AhNiu, you awake? Lets go catch dragonflies Tomorrow You bring him to the fields to work, it will be good. Aah! AhNiu AhNiu, AhNiu, AhNiu... Follow me, follow me Come on, come... come here... See, you were blind during the day Aunt YueCi didn't want us to say anything But she's helping you redo Seedlings have life too They can't stay too close or it will hinder their growth Just like us humans In life, we must respect each other That way we can live peacefully and happily I'll remember that Grandma, come, lets eat OK Grandma YueCi Yes, grandma? In a couple of days, it'll be time to go to the gravesite Go to the gravesite to visit your parents. OK Grandma said, in a couple of days I should go and visit my parents graves Drink a little water I would like to discuss something with you You're leaving. I would like to go back once to visit my parent's graves Filial piety is important, you should go I'll be coming back You've been here for many years I've known that one day you would eventually leave this place Actually I ... These are a change of clothes for your journey. Please take them. I haven't told you my name yet You need not tell me Where you came from, or where you're going I need not know either I just want to remember you as AhNiu My name is Huo YuanJia I'll remember 1907, Tientsin here's tasty food - here's tasty food Money. Money Word of God is trust Trust the God and attain eternal life Really, really Trust the God and attain eternal life His words are all in here God's word is here Huo YuanJia! First in Tientsin Huo YuanJia! First in Tientsin Huo YuanJia Huo YuanJia Came back again Huo YuanJia has come back again Master... - Uncle LaiFu You're back! Let me, let me Sorry, I didn't clean your home well Master, sorry I've always thought about the day Master would return Of the things in here, nothing has been changed It's been a burden on you It's my job Master After you left, the creditors came everyday chasing their debts All the things in the house, were taken by them one by one In the end, they even wanted the house to pay off the debt All of the things in this room were able to be kept only because someone sent a package of money to us After much thought, I believe the person who might have done this is Master Fong I don't need them any more I believe my parents also don't want to see these things again Honorable Father Only now do I understand, that year on the stage why you didn't deliver the final blow You, are the the real First in Tientsin Honorable Mother You taught me moral values Your son was too foolish and didn't understand Don't worry I will not disappoint you again My child I didn't look after you while alive but instead brought down a great misfortune upon you I'm not a good father Madam, in the past I did something unforgivable Today I come to pay my respects to Master Qin Mum! Mum! Extra Extra! In the newspaper, Foreigner named Hercules With 32 consecutive wins 25 contestants seriously injured (?) He scorns the Chinese as sickly cowards But no one dares challenge him JingSun I'm a shame to you There are many things that, only after the fact, does one realize that they were wrong The wrong pains my heart I don't want to mention the past It's all over JingSun It's hard for me to ask But you're my only hope I need to borrow some money Still after the fighting competition? Yes I don't have you as a friend Why should I lend you money? Master Boss Huo This is a gift from my master Who is you master? He's Nong JingSun 1909, Shanghai Racetrack Ladies and gentleman The person appearing for you today can single-handedly move a train, with a single blow, can punch a hole through the Great Wall of China What bullshit with his little finger, can squeeze to death any chinese fighter Sucker! - Introducing The strongman Ao... bi... yine The challenger for today Huo YuanJia from Tientsin! Good! Sign the statement first Tell him Fighting to the death Is bad culture from China But we have another tradition It is being compassionate Nice! Eh.. He wants to kick your butt Come on Competition start! Come on Come on All right Good Good All right Master well done! You're kind Thank you Good Knight from China defeats the American fighter "Huo YuanJia defeats Hercules Wushu of Huo YuanJia" All come along to him "Huo YuanJia called together all the wushu masters" "Shanghai Foreign Journalists Club" Master, someone has invited you JingSun, I didn't expect it to be you You still treat me as a friend I just can't forget you as a friend I can't Come, have a seat, YuanJia I've prepared your favourite wine Come! What's the matter I've given up, it's been many years now You were a drinker back then It's for the sake of righting the wongs in my past Good Then, we'll use tea instead of wine YuanJia After that fight, you've returned some face to our countrymen The Westerners have forced us into this postion And there should be a Chinese to stand up for us As a friend I'm happy for you! Please try some. JingSun This time, when are you leaving? Since I've come, I'm not leaving How about your restaurant? I sold it Sold it! The business was very good, wasn't it? You want to start the JingWu School Without money how are you going to organize? But the restaurant business is your everything When compared with this burden my little resturant business is nothing YuanJia I'm not the kung fu man I only have a little power To get you success This is according to the content we discussed See if it is to your satisfaction JingWu society has 3 things Educate the body, wisdom and morality WuShu is a method to become stronger No matter what school By helping each other to improve a healthy body, wisdom of mind People can become stronger I am not allowed to use the fist to harm another Nor are people allowed to abuse WuShu Virtue and morality as the base Constantly strive to become stronger! Ready! Well gentlemen, it's too rich for me I only bet on sure things Then perhaps you'd be interested in joining our little wager ..against this Huo YuanJia fellow He better lose this time, He cost me 6,000 Franks when he beat this O'Brian Mr. Ita here will ensure that you win back everything that you've lost Plus a little bit more I'm certain still, a competition of 4 matches Between our country's best against him, Will beat him and leave the Chinese with nothing to brag about 4 against 1? What makes you so sure he's gonna accept that? Try, who knows, the prestige of his school? It's of no importance, he has already accepted the challenge Then gentlemen, I'll take you up on your wager And to make it a little more interestin' I'm gonna back the Chinese You are certain YuanJia will lose? With what I have in mind, our victory is guaranteed Yuan Jia The competitor this time... I got 1 Japanese name Tian Zhong An Ye he would like to meet with you I heard that he is the best of the best Only when we fight with the best can we improve Yuan Jia, this invitation from the foreign businessmen I don't think its straightforward If not how come they let you... 1 person fight against 4 people? I think they're trying to use this opportunity to lose our face So that JingWu school becomes powerless in Shanghai Yes Not only 1 fighting with 4, but without defeat It's not fair at all But as we live who can guarantee anthing in life is going to be fair? For JingWu School I have no other options But if... Jing Sun! I have something to discuss with you What is it? After this I want you to become the next president Why? I wanna make some time to visit YueChi I've made a promise to them So, as you say, you really don't know your tea? Not it's not that I don't understand, I'm just unwilling I don't want to give ranks to the tea As long as it's tea, it's fine with me But tea has it's distinction and grade What is good? What is bad? They all grow in nature Without any rank or distinction It seems you still don't understand Otherwise nature will determine a rank Sir is right So I found that The superiority or inferiority of tea Is not from the tea It's decided by humans Different people have different choice I'm unwilling to choose this Oh, why? Tea is just a frame of mind If you're happy Is the superiority or inferiority of tea important? Oh, An Ye never thought of this According to Sir, there're factions of Wushu too But really there's no superiority or inferiority? I think so, that's right Then, An Ye would like to ask you Since there's no superiority or inferiority in wushu Why still have competition in Wushu? I think that there's no superiority or inferiority in Wushu Just the distinction of a person with ability Through the competition we can discover this And meet the true self Because indeed the antagonist Is namely is ourself Only through competition, can one recognise one's true self Is it possible that means, The worst fight is with oneself? An Ye has enjoyed having a conversation with you Our motive today is to taste the tea Not just talking and forgetting about tasting the tea Come, taste the tea Taste the tea "1910 ,Shanghai" "Theater Biarya, France" 'scene of the competition" Ladies and gentlmen The last fight of the day TianZhongAn Ye from Japan Versus Huo YuanJia from China What's the matter? One versus four? Why didn't you tell me before? This consultation We discussed before You need not be surprised Is this called competition? This is murder You're worrying unnecessarily Huo YuanJia is King of the Arena An outstanding person from all the country Todays arrangement was him... Ita san What are your motives? Was this for the honour of Japan? Or just for yourself? Martial arts are very dear to me Competition just for the sake of winning Begin Yuan Jia This competition was unfair for you If you choose another day for the fight, I have no objections I understand your good intentions But I am already standing in this arena There must be a conclusion Please! Begin! Good, very good Master, too good! This time no winner Waiting for next round Both sides please prepare Ita where have you been? We're going to lose I have arranged everything Don't worry gentlemen! I have it under control Yuan Jia! Stop! What happened? Tanaka (Tian Zhong), what happened? Tell him to go Go! Yuan Jia! Tanaka (Tian Zhong) - Go down, go! Yuan Jia, what happened? How are you? I'm poisoned - Poisoned how could it be poisoning? What happened? What are you doing? - Water! Water! What happened to the water? The water was poisoned! The proof was taken away already Yuan Jia, let's go to the hospital Master, let's go to the hospital I'm using much of my power Too late, the poison is making its way to my heart Master, I will get revenge Zhen Sheng! What you should say is not 'I will seek revenge' Hatred will beget more hatred I don't want to see any enmity The important thing is to let yourselves be at ease Yuan Jia - Master Yuan Jia, we won't continue this fight I'll take you to the hospital, let's go - Jing Sun! Jing Sun I'm just a fighter I took many years just to understand martial arts and what I could use martial arts to do This competition is not yet finished People can't choose how their life began But they must have the nerve until the last step Master... Tanaka, what about you? What do you mean? You need not ask so much 'I must win this fight' Win using any manner you choose Constantly strive to become stronger! Constantly strive to become stronger! Constantly strive to become stronger! Constantly strive to become stronger... Listen.. - Constantly strive to become stronger! Don't fight Life is important Listen, Living on isn't just for one person to decide If we must fight, I will not hold back This is my honour Master... He's down, he's down! Huo Yuan Jia is down! Go! Go! He Lost! Go, go, make the announcement! Wait! Huo Yuan Jia Yuan Jia! Huo Yuan Jia... - Huo Yuan Jia... Master Huo Yuan Jia... - Huo Yuan Jia... Master! Tanaka, how could you do something like this! See what you have done? I lost! Who says so? Who saw it? There is no doubt in my heart I want him to win Who do you think you are? How can you decide who wins? YOU.. Are an embarrasment to the Japanese Huo Yuan Jia was poisoned and rushed to the hospital, where he died at the age of 42 After Huo Yuan Jia died, the spirit of martial arts has been strengthened to this day His school of 'Jing Wu' is widespread throughout the world in 50 countries In order to remember Huo Yuan Jia, the People's Republic President, Sun Zhong San (Sun Yat Sen) wrote: ( Huo Yuan Jia was: ) 'The Spirit of Martial Arts'



